GOOD
EVENING AND WELCOME TO THE
TUESDAY SEPTEMBER 16, 20 25
REGULAR MEETING OF THE ANN
ARBOR PLANNING COMMISSION FOR
DETAILED INFORMATION ON MEETING
PROCEDURES, PLEASE REVIEW THE
FULL PRINTOUT MEETING AGENDA
PROVIDED AT EITHER END OF THE
DAIS MANAGER KELLY WOULD PLEASE
CALL THE ROLL CALL
SORRY I HAVE
A NEW LAPTOP PRESS
.
>> I DID TRY TO WORK.
ABSOLUTELY.
I'M HAPPY TO SPEAK.
THERE'S A SMALL ECHO BUT THAT'S
COMING OUT OF SOMEONE'S
COMPUTER SO.
>> ALL RIGHT, WOULD YOU PLEASE
CALL THE ROLL
WISCH HERE NOTING
THAT VICE CHAIR AVIANS IS
ABSENT SARAH HAMMERSCHMIDT HERE
WHEN WE LEAVE LISA DISH HERE
SARAH MILLS NOTED ABSENT THIS
EVENING JULIE WHETHER BE HERE
DANIEL ADAMS AND RICHARD NORTON
HERE YOU HAVE A QUORUM.
>> THANK YOU.
MAY I HAVE A MOTION TO APPROVE
THE AGENDA MOVE BY COMMISSIONER
WHETHER IT BE SECONDED BY
COUNCIL MEMBER DISH ALL THOSE
IN FAVOR OF THE MOTION PLEASE
SAY I ANY OPPOSE THE MOTION
CARRIES AND WILL NOTE THAT
COMMISSIONER LEE HAS ARRIVED.
MAY I HAVE A MOTION TO APPROVE
THE MINUTES OF THE SEPTEMBER
3RD TWENTY TWENTY FIVE MEETING
MOVE BY COMMISSIONER WHETHER IT
BE SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER
HAMMERSCHMIDT ALL THOSE EXCUSE
ME IS THERE ANY DISCUSSION
OF THE MINUTES ALL THOSE IN
FAVOR OF THE MOTION PLEASE SAY
I ANY OPPOSE THE MOTION CARRIES
.
NEXT UP ARE THE REPORTS TO THE
PLANNING COMMISSION AND WRITTEN
COMMUNICATIONS.
>> WE'LL START WITH COUNCIL
MEMBER DISH.
THANK YOU.
ALL RIGHT.
SO LAST NIGHT SOME INTERESTING
THINGS HAPPEN.
CITY COUNCIL APPROVED OR YES
DIRECTED THE CITY ADMINISTRATOR
TO FURTHER NEGOTIATE PLANS FOR
DEVELOPMENT OF THE CLEAN LOT
AND 415 WEST WASHINGTON WHICH
WILL BE COMING TO THIS BODY SO
THERE'S NOTHING CONCRETE BUT I
BELIEVE THAT AT LEAST THE CLEAN
SLATE WOULD COME TO THIS BODY
AND YES, THERE WOULD BE A SITE
PLANNED FOR THE PUDI ON 415
WEST WASHINGTON WHICH WILL COME
YES, YES, YES.
>> GOOD.
OK THEN WE DID A FIRST READING
ON THE REZONING SITE PLANNED
FOR 25 25 ANN ARBOR SALEEN ROAD
WHICH IS KNOWN AS THE CRESCENT
AND THOUGH THIS PAST THE FIRST
READING I KNOW IT'S NOT YOUR
FAULT COUNCIL MEMBERS WERE
SEVERAL COUNCIL MEMBERS WERE
CONCERNED ABOUT THE TRAFFIC
PLANS FOR I MEAN WHAT I SHOULD
SAY RATHER IS THE HOPLITE
INSTALLATION PLANS.
I THINK WE DISCUSSED AT THIS
TABLE AND WE NOTED THAT THE
DEVELOPER HAD INDICATED A
WILLINGNESS TO PAY FOR A
TRAFFIC LIGHT IF THAT WERE
PREFERRED TO PARK LIGHTS WHERE
THIS SITE MAY BE ESPECIALLY
CHALLENGED AT LEAST IN ONE PART
BECAUSE THERE'S A HILL, THERE'S
FOUR LANES PEOPLE DON'T ALWAYS
STOP FOR THOSE.
THIS IS I DON'T THINK
NECESSARILY FOR US BUT I WANTED
YOU TO KNOW THAT THOSE CONCERNS
HAD BEEN RAISED AND THIS WOULD
BE AN INSTANCE WHERE SINCE
THERE IS A MONTH BEFORE IT
COMES UP FOR SECOND READING, I
BELIEVE THERE IS A STRONG
DESIRE FOR STAFF TO PURSUE WITH
THE DEVELOPER AND COORDINATING
WITH TRANSPORTATION WHETHER IN
THE LONG TERM OR SOONER THERE
CAN BE ENHANCED PEDESTRIAN
PROTECTION FOR THAT NEW THING.
>> SO I'M NOT SURE IF I'M
SUPPOSED TO SAY THAT BUT I
DIDN'T REALLY KNOW HOW TO
OTHERWISE REPORT IT IN A WAY
THAT ISN'T AS IF I'M SENDING
STAFF ON ASSIGNMENTS OF MY OWN
PREFERENCE WHICH IS NOT MY JOB
.
>> SO THE THE ARGUS PACKARD
REZONING AND AREA PLAN WAIVER
REQUEST WENT THROUGH.
PEOPLE WERE NOT AS IMPRESSED
WITH THE FACT THAT WE NO LONGER
USE PARKING AS A BUFFER AS I
HOPED THEY WOULD BE.
I THOUGHT THEY WOULD BE REALLY
EXCITED AND JUBILANT ABOUT THAT
BUT THEY REALLY WEREN'T AND
THEN WE DID SEND SOMETHING
RELATED TO THE MARIJUANA THING
THAT'S ON OUR AGENDA TONIGHT
AND MR. LEINERT WILL EXPLAIN IF
THERE'S ANY PERTINENCE TO WHAT
COUNCIL PASSED AND I AM LEAVING
OUT SOME THINGS I BELIEVE THAT
ARE ON KELLY'S LIST BECAUSE I
COULDN'T GET TEAMS OPEN IN TIME
.
I HAVE MY LIST.
IT MIGHT HAVE SOME REDUNDANCY
TO YOURS BUT I HAVE THE
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT FOR
TWELVE TRAVEL S DIVISION WAS
APPROVED AMENDMENT TO A
PURCHASE AGREEMENT FOR ELEVEN
FORTY SIX SOUTH MAPLE THE
REVISED CONSENT JUDGMENT FOR
THE WEBER PROPERTY TWENTY EIGHT
FIFTY SEVEN PACKARD FIRST
READING OF THE CRESCENT AS YOU
MENTIONED AND REZONING WITH
SOME QUESTIONS AND FIRST
READING OF ONE THOUSAND SEVEN
WOODLAWN REZONING WITH NO
QUESTIONS.
THANK YOU COUNCIL MEMBER DISH
WILL WE DO WE HAVE A MANAGER'S
REPORT.
I DO HAVE A BRIEF MANAGERS
REPORT THIS EVENING WHICH IS
THAT FOR THE THIRD YEAR IN A
ROW THE PLANNING TEAM WILL BE
AT THE GREEN FAIR ON FRIDAY
SEPTEMBER 19TH FROM FIVE TO
EIGHT P.M. OUR TABLE WILL FOCUS
ON HOW THE DRAFT COMPREHENSIVE
PLAN PROMOTES SUSTAINABILITY
AND SO YOU WILL SEE STAFF OUT
OF THE GREEN FAIR.
PLEASE COME SAY HI.
DON'T BE SHY TO DROP BY YOUR
TABLE AND AS ALWAYS I KNOW WE
INVITE PLANNING COMMISSIONERS
TO ATTEND WITH US.
>> THANK YOU TO OTHER
COMMISSIONERS OR COMMITTEE
LIAISONS.
>> HAVE ANYTHING ELSE TO REPORT
SO SAY NONE.
>> WRITTEN COMMUNICATIONS ARE
IN TODAY'S PACKET WHICH ARE
AVAILABLE IN REGISTAR SO WE
COME NOW TO AGENDA ITEM NUMBER
SIX PUBLIC COMMENT THIS IS AN
OPPORTUNITY FOR INDIVIDUALS TO
SPEAK UP TO THREE MINUTES ON
ISSUES NOT LISTED AS A PUBLIC
HEARING OR DEDICATED PUBLIC
COMMENT PERIOD ON TODAY AGENDA
.
WE WILL FIRST HEAR FROM THOSE
OF YOU WHO ARE PRESENT IN THE
CHAMBER.
THEN WE WILL HEAR FROM REMOTE
PARTICIPANTS TO SPEAK REMOTELY
PRESS STAR NINE IF ON PHONE OR
USE RAISED HAND FEATURE IF
USING ZUN FOR PHONE ACCESS CALL
EIGHT SEVEN SEVEN EIGHT FIVE
THREE FIVE TO FOUR SEVEN AND IN
MEETING ID NINE SEVEN SEVEN SIX
SIX THREE FOUR ONE TWO TWO SIX
CITY STAFF WILL IDENTIFY
CALLERS BY THE LAST THREE
DIGITS OF THEIR PHONE NUMBER OR
BY NAME FOR ZUNE USERS YOU'LL
HEAR AN ANNOUNCEMENT WHEN IT'S
YOUR TURN TO SPEAK PLEASE MOVE
TO A QUIET AREA MUTE ANY
BACKGROUND NOISE FOR ALL
PARTICIPANTS.
PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME AND
ADDRESS AT THE BEGINNING
OF YOUR COMMENTS.
IS THERE ANYONE PRESENT IN THE
CHAMBER WHO WOULD LIKE TO
SPEAK?
YEAH, COME RIGHT UP.
>> THANK YOU REVEREND.
AND MEMBERS OF THE COMMISSION
AND CITY STAFF MY NAME IS JAMES
MOORE AND I LIVE IN THE THIRD
WARD OF THE CITY OF ANN ARBOR.
I WAS GOING TO SPEAK WITH
PORTFOLIO ON ONE PARTICULAR
SUBJECT MATTER RELATED TO THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.
I'LL TOUCH ON THAT AND THAT BUT
I THINK I'LL REPRESENT MYSELF
SOLELY AS AN INDIVIDUAL.
THE PRIMARY THING I'M STILL
CONCERNED ABOUT SOME THINGS
THAT ARE REALLY NOT THERE AND
I'VE DISCUSSED THIS WITH MR.
LEONARD AND I HAVE NOT HEARD
BACK FROM HIM BUT SPECIFICALLY
I'M TALKING ABOUT THERE'S NO
REFERENCE OR MENTION OF THE
GOVERNMENT PLUME ONE POINT FOR
AND PUT IN THE PLAN AND I
REALLY THINK THAT'S IMPORTANT.
I DON'T KNOW WHAT IT BOILS DOWN
TO IN TERMS OF THE FINAL
RECOMMENDATION YOUR BODY OR THE
CITY COUNCIL WILL TAKE
REGARDING THE PLAN.
BUT IT IS REALLY IMPORTANT TO
HAVE THAT AS A HISTORICAL
FACTOR IN CONSIDERING
DEVELOPMENT IN TERMS OF SHAPING
IT.
I CERTAINLY THINK IT SHOULD BE
IN THE PLAN.
I'LL TOUCH ON SOME OF THE OTHER
THINGS THAT I'VE NOTED AND I'M
SURE IT'S BEEN DISCUSSED BUT IT
SEEMS TO ME I'M SEEING A
PATTERN I'M GLAD THAT THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN DOES
REFERENCE THE GREENBELT MILLAGE
THAT WAS PASSED IN TWO THOUSAND
THREE AND WILL BE UP AGAIN
BARRING ANY EARLY REVIEW IN
TWENTY THIRTY THREE.
IT'S A LANDMARK MILLICH AND I'M
GLAD THAT THE CITY MAKES
REFERENCE TO IT BUT MENTIONS
ACQUISITIONS OF LAND OUTSIDE
THE CITY WHAT IT WAS AND I WAS
INVOLVED IN TERMS OF SUPPORTING
WHEN IT WAS PASSED.
IT ALSO INCLUDES ONE THIRD
OF THE MILITARY APPROPRIATED
FOR LAND PRESERVATION THE CITY
I THINK IT'S IMPORTANT WE NEED
TO HAVE THAT LANGUAGE IN THE
PLAN AS WELL.
ALSO I'M PARTICULARLY TROUBLED
THAT THE NATURAL FEATURES
OF LAND IS NOT MOVING FORWARD
IN THE NEW PLAN IN TERMS
OF SUPPORTING DOCUMENTS DRAWN
OUT IT REALLY NEEDS TO HAPPEN
AND WHILE WHATEVER YOU FEEL
ABOUT THESE ENVIRONMENTAL
ISSUES, WHETHER YOU HAVE A MORE
RESTRAINED VIEW OF DEVELOPMENT
OR FRANKLY OF BABYGRO, YOU
SHOULD BE CONCERNED ABOUT THE
NATURAL SYSTEMS OF OUR CITY AND
YES, HAVING A NOMOTO STRUCTURE
IS IMPORTANT AND WHEN I WAS IN
THE PLANNING COMMISSION IT WAS
A FIGHT TO GET THAT TAKEN CARE
OF .
SO I'M GLAD TO SEE THAT IN THE
PLAN AND REFERENCE AND WE'VE
COME A LONG WAY AND CERTAINLY
SOLAR AS WELL.
>> WE NEED ALSO SUSTAINABILITY
HAPPENS PROTECTING THE NATURAL
ENVIRONMENT AS WELL.
SO AS WE MOVE FORWARD AS WE
GROW OR HOWEVER WE CHOOSE TO
GROW, WE REALLY NEED TO TAKE A
FIRM LOOK AT PROTECTING OUR
NATURAL FEATURES AND THAT EACH
OF YOU AND I WISH YOU ALL GOOD
EVENING.
>> THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU
.
HI MY NAME IS ADAM JUSZKIEWICZ
14 DE LAS VEGAS DRIVE AND I'D
JUST LIKE TO USE THIS AS AN
OPPORTUNITY TO PLUG
NEIGHBORHOOD WEEK.
THIS IS A WEEK LONG SERIES
OF ACTIVITIES AND EVENTS
FOCUSED ON BUILDING IN OUR
FUTURE WITH BIG IDEAS AROUND
LAND USE AND TRANSPORTATION.
PLEASE JOIN US AT OUR EVENTS
THIS WEEK.
WE HAVE SOME FLIERS OVER THERE
OR JUST TALK TO ANY OF US OR
CHECK OUT MORE NEIGHBORS A TO
DOG.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
.
ANYONE ELSE IN THE CHAMBER
SEEING NONE.
>> MANAGER KELLY DO WE HAVE
REMOTE PARTICIPANTS?
>> WE HAVE NO REMOTE
PARTICIPANTS.
FANTASTIC.
I WILL CLOSE THE PUBLIC HEARING
THAT TAKES US TO AGENDA ITEM
NUMBER SEVEN COMMUNICATION FROM
COMMISSIONERS.
>> ARE THERE ANY I WOULD LIKE
TO MAKE ONE SMALL ONE THIS WEEK
ON THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 18TH
FROM SIX TO NINE I WILL BE IN
ATTENDANCE AT HOME FOR GOOD
WHICH IS A EVENT FOR AVALON
HOUSING WHERE I WILL BE
RECEIVING THEIR COMMUNITY
ADVOCATE AWARD.
>> AND SO THANK YOU AND I
ACTUALLY HAVE SOME TICKETS THAT
ARE STILL IN MY POSSESSION.
>> SO IF YOU WOULD LIKE TO JOIN
ME MY TABLE I WOULD LOVE TO
HAVE YOU JOIN ME
.
>> ANY OTHER COMMUNICATIONS
FROM COMMISSIONERS COMMISSIONER
WETHERBEE, CONGRATULATIONS ON
THAT AWARD AND ALSO THANK YOU
TO EVERYONE WHO IS
PARTICIPATING IN NEIGHBORHOOD
WEEK.
I THINK IT'S A IT'S GOOD FOR
PEOPLE TO BE INVOLVED IN THERE
THE CITY AND THE FUTURE OF IT.
SO HOWEVER YOU FEEL ABOUT
CHANGES THAT ARE HAPPENING,
IT'S GOOD TO BE INVOLVED.
ANYONE ELSE THAT WILL TAKE US
TO AGENDA ITEM NUMBER EIGHT
PUBLIC HEARINGS SCHEDULED FOR
THE NEXT BUSINESS MEETING
MANAGER KELLY, DO WE HAVE ANY
PUBLIC HEARINGS SCHEDULED?
>> THERE ARE NO PUBLIC HEARINGS
SCHEDULED FOR THE TUESDAY,
OCTOBER 7TH.
TWENTY TWENTY FIVE MEETING THAT
MEETING WILL START AT FIVE
THIRTY PM AND THE COMMISSION
WILL DISCUSS THE THIRD DRAFT
OF THE COMPREHENSIVE LAND USE
PLAN.
THERE WILL BE TWO OPPORTUNITIES
FOR PUBLIC COMMENT AT THE
BEGINNING AND END OF THAT
MEETING.
>> THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
ONTO AGENDA ITEM NUMBER NINE
UNFINISHED BUSINESS THERE IS
NONE THAT TAKES US TO AGENDA
NUMBER TEN REGULAR BUSINESS AND
WE WILL START WITH A A PETITION
THAT WE HAVE HERE BEFORE US FOR
TWENTY FIVE TO PACARD STREET
ALSO KNOWN AS THE GEORGE S.P.
TWO FOUR DASH ZERO ZERO ONE
NINE SITE PLAN FOR PLANNING
COMMISSION APPROVAL BEFORE US
IS A PROPOSED SITE PLAN TO
CONSTRUCT A FOUR STORY FORTY
SIX UNIT APARTMENT BUILDING
WITH GROUND FLOOR RETAIL SPACE
AT THE GEORGE AND EXISTING FOUR
STOREY TWO HUNDRED AND FORTY
NINE UNIT APARTMENT BUILDING
STAFF RECOMMENDATION IS
APPROVAL.
WE'LL START WITH THE PETITIONER
PRESENTATION AND THEN WE'LL
HEAR FROM PLANNER DUILIO.
WE'LL HAVE A PUBLIC HEARING AND
THEN THE COMMISSION WILL
CONSIDER THIS PROPOSAL AND HAVE
OUR DISCUSSION AND ULTIMATE
WELCOME.
>> HELLO MY NAME IS KINGOLD
REPRESENTATIVE INSPIRED BY
SUMMERSET DEVELOPMENT.
THE OWNER OF THE GEORGE I WAS
HERE THREE YEARS AGO.
I THINK A LOT OF PEOPLE
REMEMBER ME.
>> I GAVE A WHOLE SPIEL ABOUT
HOW RETAIL DIDN'T WORK IN THE
SPACE AS IT WAS DESIGNED IN
THAT MOMENT BECAUSE IT DIDN'T
WE HAD TWENTY THOUSAND SQUARE
FEET OF VACANT RETAIL RECESSED
OFF THE ROAD BELOW GRADE.
YOU COULDN'T REALLY SEE IT.
NO ONE WANTED TO RENT THE SPACE
.
WE HAD TOURS.
WE HAD LOTS OF INTEREST.
WE HAD LOTS OF PEOPLE ASKING TO
SEE IT.
NO ONE WANTED TO SEE IT AFTER A
WHILE AND THEN IT JUST SAT
VACANT.
>> WE YOU GUYS GAVE US IT GAVE
US THE APPROVAL.
WE BUILT IT OUT.
IT'S NOW LEASED IT'S THRIVING
UNDER THE RESIDENTIAL PORTION
WHEN THE CITY OF ANN ARBOR
CHANGED THEIR PARKING
REQUIREMENTS TO PRODUCE THE
PARKING BURDENED BY
OF DEVELOPMENTS WE HAD FOUR
HUNDRED FIFTY SEVEN PARKING
SPACES ON A TWO HUNDRED FIFTY
UNIT BUILDING.
IT WAS LARGELY UNUSED AND THAT
SAME ISSUE AT THE FRONT WHERE
WHENEVER I GET DROPPED OFF ON
NEWBOROUGH THERE AND HAS NO
IDEA WHERE TO GO AND WHEN
PEOPLE COME IN LOOKING FOR
SPACE AND THEY HAVE NO IDEA
WHERE TO GO THAT REPRESENTED AN
ISSUE AND AN OPPORTUNITY.
I'M PROUD TO SAY THAT WE ARE
PROPOSING A PLAN HERE THAT
PROVIDES RETAIL IN THIS SPACE
WAS ABOUT SIX HUNDRED SQUARE
FOOT RETAIL ON THE GROUND FLOOR
RIGHT ON PACARD DOUBLE HEIGHT
SPACE SO THAT IT'S ACTUALLY SO
THERE'S SIGNAGE THAT'S ACTUALLY
VISIBLE FROM THE ROAD ON PACARD
YOU CAN WALK DOWN FROM PACARD
INTO THE SPACE AND THE DRIVE
AISLE HAS ACTUALLY BEEN REMOVED
AROUND THE CURRENT COURTYARD
AND THAT WILL BECOME GREEN
SPACE FOR WALKABILITY ACCESS
AND JUST BETTER USE FOR THE
COMMUNITY.
>> THE PARKING HAS ACTUALLY
BEEN REDUCED TO WHERE I HAVE
411 PARKING SPACES NOW I WILL
BE PARKING AT ABOUT ONE POINT
TWO PER UNIT WHICH IS EXACTLY
WHAT I'M PARKING TODAY AT LEAST
SO PARKING REALLY SHOULD NOT BE
THAT MUCH OF AN ISSUE.
I WANT TO THANK EVERYONE FOR
LISTENING TO THIS BECAUSE I
KNOW IT WAS VERY DIFFICULT WHEN
I WHEN WE REMOVED THE RETAIL
BEFORE WE GENUINELY IT COULD
NOT WORK AND WE TRULY BELIEVE
THAT THIS WILL WORK.
AND SO I WANT TO INTRODUCE
SCOTT BOWER'S WHO CAN GET A
LITTLE BIT MORE DETAIL ON THE
ELEVATION'S AND THE PLANS HERE
.
GOOD EVENING, SCOTT.
OUR TWENTY FOUR HUNDRED SOUTH
KOREAN PARKWAY, OUR ASSOCIATES,
ARCHITECTS IF WE COULD GO TO
THE NEXT SLIDE THIS THIS SLIDE
SHOWS YOU AND THEY USE SHAPE
WHERE OUR NEW PROPOSED BUILDING
SITS CURRENTLY IS PARKING ALL
THE WAY AROUND AND IF I THINK
IT'S IN THE LAST SLIDE I CAN
SHOW YOU WHAT WE'VE DONE TO
MAYBE DIDN'T MAKE IT.
IT WOULD BE THEN BACK TO THE
LANDSCAPE THERE WAS A COLORED
LANDSCAPE I'M SORRY
.
OK, SO IT'S A FOUR STORY
BUILDING MATERIAL.
IT'S ALREADY PLANK ON THE UPPER
FLOORS FIRST WAR HAS BAND
OF MASONRY AND MASONRY ON THE
RETAIL PORTION WHICH IS UP
FRONT.
YOU CAN DRIVE THROUGH ALL THREE
WINGS IF YOU LOOK AT THE SITE
PLAN YOU COULD SEE THAT THERE'S
THREE PROJECTIONS OUT IN THE
NEW SHAPE AND YOU CAN DRIVE
UNDER THE BUILDING ON ALL THREE
BUILDINGS.
WE'VE GOT A GREAT MIXTURE
OF TWO BEDROOMS, ONE BEDROOM
AND ONE BEDROOM LOFTS
.
IT'S FIFTY FEET TALL, YOU KNOW,
HERE WE GO.
SO YOU CAN SEE THE CURVATURE
OF THE ROAD GOING UNDERNEATH
THE BUILDINGS AND HOW WE'VE
DESIGNED THE COURTYARD NOW
COURTYARDS 40 PLUS FEET WIDE ON
EACH SIDE.
WE DO NOT ATTACH OURSELVES TO
THE EXISTING BUILDING BUT IT IS
WALKABLE TO THE EXISTING
BUILDING AT THE BOTTOM OF THE
USE THE MAIN ENTRANCE
OF SO IS
AN OUTDOOR AREA, SOME SEATING
AREA, A WINDING PATH AND THEN
YOU CAN SEE THE LITTLE
RECTANGLES ON OUR BUILDING.
THOSE ARE ACTUALLY ENTRANCEWAYS
INTO THE APARTMENTS.
>> SO WE WE HAVE GOOD
CONNECTIVITY.
OUR PLAYERS HAVE SPACE WHICH
WHERE WE DIDN'T HAVE IT BEFORE
WAS MORE OF A CONCRETE PARKING
AREA RATHER THAN A USABLE
LANDSCAPE AREA
.
OUR COLOR PALETTE IS THE SAME
AS THE EXISTING BUILDING.
WE DO HAVE A SIGN FEATURE IN
FRONT OF THE BUILDING AGAINST
PACARD ROAD IN SOME UNDULATION
IN THE BUILDING ITSELF
THE
PRESENTATION
WE'RE EXCITED
ABOUT THIS BUILDING BECAUSE IT
DOES FULFILL A NEED FOR THE
DEVELOPMENT AND USES OF THE
UNDERUTILIZED SPACE THAT WE
HAVE ON THE CURRENT SITE.
>> YOU CAN SEE THE THE
RENDERINGS WHICH WE HAVE WE
HAVE SOME VIEWS AND YOU CAN SEE
WHERE YOU GO UNDER THE BUILDING
AND THEN THE RETAIL SPOT WHICH
IS UP ON PACARD THE UPPER RIGHT
IS THE FRONT OF THE BUILDING ON
PACARD AND YOU CAN SEE THE
RETAIL SPACE DOWN BELOW AND
IT'S APARTMENTS ALL ABOVE
EXLINE
IT THAT'S FINE.
YOU CAN SEE THE INSULATION IN
THE BUILDING AND ONE HUNDRED
AND FIFTY FEET AND YOU CAN SEE
THE DOORS INTO THE APARTMENTS
AT THE PLAZA.
THE NEXT SLIDE PLEASE THE FRONT
OF THE BUILDING
WHERE WE HAVE
MASONRY ON THE FIRST FLOOR.
GIVE ME A LITTLE DIFFERENT LOOK
AND THEN AGAIN THE HARDPOINT
SIDING UP ABOVE AND AGAIN THESE
COLORS MATCH THE EXISTING
BUILDING.
NEXT SLIDE PLEASE IN THE OTHER
SIDE WITH THE OPENING AND THEN
YOU CAN SEE THE GLASS INTO THE
RETAIL SPACE ARE OUR TYPICAL
FLOOR PLANS.
>> WE HAVE TWO BEDROOMS ON THE
END, ONE BEDROOMS AND THE
MAJORITY OF THE BUILDING AND A
FEW STANDARD STUDIOS
.
WE DO HAVE LAWS ON THE FIRST
FLOOR THAT WAS WHAT THAT FIRST
SLIDE WAS
THAT ONE WE DON'T
NEED TALK ABOUT.
BUT AGAIN THIS ONE YOU CAN SEE
WHERE THE PARKING WAS IF YOU GO
TO ONE MORE FLOOR PLAN AND THEN
PRETTY MUCH WRAP IT UP GOOD.
SO HOPEFULLY YOU'VE SEEN
ENOUGH.
SO MY ENGINEERS SAW ONE ZOOM IF
THERE'S ANY QUESTIONS I KNOW WE
WORKED REALLY HARD BUT LIKE THE
WHOLE TEAM TO GET GET ALL THE
FIRE SAFETY IN STORMWATER AND
ALL THAT STUFF TAKING CARE
OF SO IF THERE'S ANY QUESTIONS
I'M HAPPY TO ANSWER NOT JUST NO
PUT IT TO VOTE OR WHATEVER YOU
GUYS WANT TO DO.
>> GREAT.
THANK AS MUCH.
WILL NOW GO TO THE STAFF
PRESENTATION AND WE'LL CALL YOU
BACK WHEN IT'S OUR TURN IF WE
HAVE QUESTIONS FOR YOU.
THANK YOU SO MUCH PLANNER
DUILIO.
THANK YOU.
AS MENTIONED THIS IS THE TWENTY
FIVE 002 PACARD STREET SITE
PLAN FOR PLANNING COMMISSION
APPROVAL.
IT IS KNOWN AS THE GEORGE SITE
IS LOCATED ON THE WEST SIDE
OF PACARD BETWEEN PINE VALLEY
BOULEVARD AND KING GEORGE
BOULEVARD IN THE SOUTH AREA
OF THE CITY.
IT'S A SIX AND A HALF ACRE SITE
ZONE C ONE B AND IT WAS IT'S
DEVELOPED WITH THE GEORGE WHICH
IS ABOUT 250 UNIT APARTMENT
BUILDING THREE HUNDRED SIXTY
FIVE SQUARE FEET OR SO BEFORE
AND IT CONTAINS OVER 400
PARKING SPACES.
IT DOES HAVE A GOOD NUMBER
OF FIFTY SIX CLASS A BICYCLE
PARKING SPACES ALREADY SOME
OF THOSE PARKING SPACES ARE IN
A GARAGE UNDERNEATH THE
BUILDING ON ITS YOU KNOW ITS
WEST SIDE TONIGHT THE PROPOSED
SITE PLAN ADDS A FOUR STORY
BUILDING TO THE FRONT IN
BETWEEN THE EXISTING BUILDINGS
NORTH AND SOUTH WING'S MIDDLE
TAKE AWAY ABOUT FORTY TWO
PARKING SPACES IN THAT
PARTICULAR AREA, A FEW MORE
PARKING SPACES WILL BE REMOVED
FOR OTHER SITE IMPROVEMENTS
SUCH AS ADDITIONAL TRASH AND
RECYCLING FACILITIES.
THE NEW BUILDING CONTAINS FORTY
SIX APARTMENTS AND A SMALL
RETAIL SPACE AS MENTIONED,
OTHER SITE IMPROVEMENTS THAT GO
ALONG WITH THIS ARE JUST
REPAIRS NORMAL MAINTENANCE TO
THE STORM WATER MANAGEMENT
SYSTEM AND A LITTLE BIT
OF REGRADING FOR IMPROVED
DRAINAGE ON THE WEST SIDE THE
SITE MENTIONED THE ADDITIONAL
TRASH AND RECYCLING FACILITIES
.
THERE'LL BE A NEW FIRE HYDRANT
UP ON PACARD.
THOSE ARE PROPOSED TO SUPPORT
THE NEW BUILDING A PARKS
CONTRIBUTION HAS BEEN OFFERED
OF A LITTLE MORE THAN ALMOST
THREE THIRTY FOUR THOUSAND
DOLLARS FOR THE ADDITIONAL
FORTY SIX HOUSEHOLDS TO BE
ADDED TO THE CITY.
AND ALL TOLD, THE SITE WILL
HAVE AROUND FOUR HUNDRED
FIFTEEN THOUSAND SQUARE FEET
OF TOTAL FLOOR AREA IN THE TWO
BUILDINGS THE SAME 400 AND SOME
PARKING SPACES IN GARAGES,
CARPORTS AND SURFACE LOTS.
THE CITY'S DEVELOPMENT REVIEW
TEAM REVIEWED THE WHOLE PACKAGE
FOR COMPLIANCE WITH ALL OF OUR
VARIOUS CODES AND STANDARDS AND
FOUND IT TO COMPLY IN THE STAFF
REPORT THERE IS A SITE PLAN
REVIEW SUMMARY WHICH CONTAINS
MOST OF THE DIMENSION OF MOST
OF THE VARIOUS DEVELOPMENT
STANDARDS FOR A SUMMARY OF OUR
COMPREHENSION OF OUR ACROSS
DEPARTMENT REVIEW PLANNING
STAFF IS RECOMMENDING ALSO I
SHOULD ALSO MENTION THAT THERE
IS A LITTLE BIT OF APPROVAL
HISTORY IN THE STAFF REPORT.
THE PROJECT WAS FIRST DEVELOPED
AS THE PACARD SQUARE SITE PLAN
FOR CITY COUNCIL APPROVAL BACK
IN 2001 AND THEN HAD A SLEW
OF AMENDMENTS GENERALLY TWEAKS
AS THE DESIGNS EVOLVED AND
CONSTRUCTION PLANS WERE COMING
ALONG AND THEN EVEN I THINK A
LITTLE BIT POST APPROVAL TO
REFLECT SOME ASBILL OR SOME
NEEDED CHANGES.
AND THEN I DID HAVE A MAJOR
SITE PLANNED CHANGE IN THAT MR.
GOLD TO CONVERT THE APPROVED
RETAIL SPACE INTO ADDITIONAL IF
I'M REPEATING MYSELF I
APOLOGIZE.
STAFF DOES RECOMMEND APPROVAL
OF THE OF THE VERSION FIVE SITE
PLAN DATED AUGUST 15TH.
THAT IS THE MOTION AND WE
RECOMMEND CITY COUNCIL ENTER
INTO A DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
FOR THAT PARKLAND CONTRIBUTION
.
>> HAPPY TO ANSWER ANY
QUESTIONS.
JUST LET ME KNOW.
GREAT.
THANK YOU.
PINER JALEO WILL NOW SET ASIDE
SOME TIME FOR A PUBLIC HEARING.
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
INDIVIDUALS TO SPEAK UP TO
THREE MINUTES ON THE PROPOSED
TWENTY FIVE TO PACARD STREET
SITE PLAN.
WE'LL FIRST HEAR FROM THOSE
THAT ARE PRESENT IN THE
CHAMBERS THEN REMOTE
PARTICIPANTS TO SPEAK REMOTELY
PRESS STAR NINE IF ON PHONE OR
USE THE RACE AND FEATURE IF
USING ZOOM FOR PHONE ACCESS
DIAL EIGHT SEVEN SEVEN EIGHT
FIVE THREE FIVE TO FOUR SEVEN
AND IN OUR MEETING ID NINE
SEVEN SEVEN SIX SIX THREE FOUR
ONE TWO TWO SIX CITY STAFF
IDENTIFY CALLERS ABOUT THE LAST
THREE DIGITS OF THEIR PHONE OR
BY NAME IF USING ZOOM YOU'LL
HEAR AN ANNOUNCEMENT WHEN IT'S
YOUR TURN TO SPEAK PLEASE MOVE
TO A QUIET AREA AND MUTE ANY
BACKGROUND NOISE FOR ALL
PARTICIPANTS.
PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME AND
ADDRESS AT THE BEGINNING
OF YOUR COMMENTS.
IS THERE ANYONE PRESENT WHO
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK FOR THE
SAKE OF YOUR FUTURE SLEEP
SCHEDULES?
I HOPE ALL MEETINGS ARE BORING
.
HELLO PLANNING COMMISSION I'M
MARK SERBO TWENTY SEVENTEEN
FAIR STREET.
TODAY IS MY BIRTHDAY AND I
COULDN'T THINK OF A BETTER WAY
TO SPEND MY 30TH BIRTHDAY THAN
SURROUNDED BY NEIGHBORS WHO
WANT TO MAKE ANN ARBOR A MORE
WELCOMING CITY.
I'M EXCITED TO SEE THE GEORGE
CONTINUE TO EVOLVE THE PROPERTY
AND TO ADD MORE HOUSING IN
PLACE OF UNDERUTILIZED SERVICE
PARKING LOTS.
THE GREATER BUILDING FRONTAGE
WILL MAKE PACARD MORE WELCOMING
EXPERIENCE FOR PEDESTRIANS,
WHICH IS AN EXPERIENCE ALREADY
APPROVED BY PACKARD RO THE
DEVELOPER WILL PAY FOR
IMPROVEMENTS TO THE STORE MOTOR
SYSTEMS A NEW FIRE HYDRANT AND
WE'LL EVEN MAKE A PARKS
CONTRIBUTION.
I WAS GOING TO ASK FOR A FACT
CHECK BUT IT SOUNDS LIKE THAT'S
BEEN CONFIRMED THIS HOUSING
PRODUCTION WOULD NOT HAVE BEEN
POSSIBLE HERE PRIOR TO THE
REPEAL OF PARKING MINIMUMS
THANKS TO THE THOUGHTFUL
REMOVAL OF THAT ARBITRARY
STANDARD, THE LANDOWNER MAY NOW
DETERMINE WHAT IS THE HIGHEST
AND BEST USE OF SPACE ON THEIR
LAND.
THIS IS GREAT.
I ONLY HAVE ONE NOTE
OF FEEDBACK AND ONE COMPLAINT
AND THIS IS NOT REALLY POOR
PLANNING COMMISSION BUT WE'VE
SEEN A NUMBER OF SMALL
BUSINESSES MOST RECENTLY THE
NEW HEYSEL COFFEE COMPANY AND
PACKARD RO RUN INTO PERMITTING
DELAYS BECAUSE OUR BUILDING
DEPARTMENT REPEATEDLY APPROVED
PLANS AND THEN FAILED
INSPECTIONS OF THOSE AS BUILT
OR THOSE BUILT AS DESIGNED
SPACES.
WE NEED TO MAKE DEVELOPMENT THE
LESS ARDUOUS IN THE CITY WHILE
ENSURING ADHERENCE TO THE
BUILDING CODE FOR HEALTH AND
SAFETY.
FINALLY MY COMPLAINT IS THAT
THESE HOMES ARE ONCE AGAIN
BEING BUILT UP TO THE MAXIMUM
OF WHAT'S ALLOWED BY RATE.
THIS IS HAPPENING ALL OVER THE
CITY AND IT'S CLEAR IT'S
BECAUSE OUR ZONING HAS NOT KEPT
UP WITH THE DEMANDS FOR SPACE
IN THE CITY.
THIS MEANS WE SEE LESS VARIETY
.
OF COURSE EVERY NEW APARTMENT
BUILDING LOOKS ROUGHLY THE SAME
.
WE'VE REGULATED FORM AND
ESTHETICS SO TIGHTLY THAT
THERE'S NOT ROOM FOR
FLEXIBILITY BASED ON MARKET
CONDITIONS OR NEIGHBORHOOD
CONTEXT.
HOWEVER, THAT IS A QUICK PLUG
FOR NEIGHBORHOOD WEEK WHICH
WE'VE ALREADY HEARD.
IF YOU LOVE GEEKING OUT ABOUT
THIS STUFF, CHECK OUT MORE
NEIGHBORS TO DOG AND JOIN US
FOR EVENTS HAPPENING EVERYDAY
THROUGH SATURDAY THIS WEEK.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU AND HAPPY BIRTHDAY.
GOOD TO BE PLANNING COMMISSION.
THANK YOU FOR YOUR TIME TO
ADDRESS YOU TONIGHT.
MY NAME IS ERIC SHALAKO AND I
LIVE IN THE GEORGETOWN
NEIGHBORHOOD OF IN WORD FOR I'M
SPEAKING IN SUPPORT OF THE
DEVELOPMENT AT TWO TWENTY FIVE
TO PACARD AND MORE HOUSING AND
RETAIL THAN GEORGE ACTUALLY
LIVE RIGHT BEHIND IT OFF
OF PAGE AVENUE SO IT'S ABOUT AS
IN MY BACKYARD AS IT GETS AND I
SAY YES TO IT BEING BUILT THERE
AND ALSO ALL OVER MY TOWN ALL
OVER TOWN WHILE I UNDERSTOOD
THE GEORGIAS OWNERS DECISION TO
CONVERT THE PREVIOUS RETAIL
SPACE TO HOUSING, I DO ADMIT
THERE WAS A PART OF ME THAT
THOUGHT THERE WAS A MISSED
OPPORTUNITY THERE FOR MY
COMMUNITY.
I KNOW THAT ME AND MY NEIGHBORS
WANT TO HAVE GROCERY STORES AND
RESTAURANTS AND OTHER AMENITIES
WITHIN WALKING DISTANCE OR
NEIGHBORHOOD WOULD BE AN EVEN
BETTER PLACE TO LIVE.
SO WHEN I HEARD THAT GEORGE
WANTS TO TURN THE SPACE FOR
CARS INTO SPACE FOR PEOPLE AND
EVEN HEARING TONIGHT THAT THE
REMOVAL OF PARKING MINIMUMS
AIDED THAT DECISION, I GOT
EXCITED FOR IT.
THAT'S NOT MY BIRTHDAY BUT I'M
STILL PRETTY EXCITED AND OUR
HOUSING CRISIS CAN ONLY BE
SOLVED BY ADDING MORE HOMES AND
THE PEOPLE LIVING THERE NEED TO
NOT RELY ON DRIVING TO MEET
THEIR NEEDS.
THAT STRETCH OF PACARD IS
DENSELY POPULATED WITH TRANSIT
ACCESS AND NEW AND EXISTING
BUSINESSES WOULD LOVE MORE
CUSTOMERS AND IF WE CAN MAKE
THAT HAPPEN IN MY NECK OF THE
WOODS, LET'S MAKE IT HAPPEN
OVER AND OVER.
THANK YOU FOR YOUR TIME AND
HOPE.
HAVE A GREAT EVENING.
>> THANK YOU
.
HI MY NAME IS KATHY JO.
I'M IN WARD FOUR ALSO IN THE
GEORGETOWN NEIGHBORHOOD THE
FIRST PUBLIC MEETING I EVER
ATTENDED WAS THE CONVERSION
OF THIS SITE BACK TO
RESIDENTIAL FROM RETAIL AND I
GOT FIRED IN THE MAIL BECAUSE I
LIVE NEAR IT AND I SAY I AM SO
MAD ABOUT THIS THAT I'M GOING
TO LISTEN TO AN ACTUAL CITY
MEETING AND I WAS READY TO TALK
DURING THAT MEETING UNTIL I
HEARD THE REASONS FOR WHY THE
RETAIL DIDN'T WORK IT BEING SET
BACK AND BELOW GRADE AND PEOPLE
NOT BEING INTERESTED BECAUSE
BEFORE I HEARD THAT I THOUGHT
IT WAS JUST THE RENT'S TOO HIGH
AND THEY SHOULD JUST LOWER THE
RENT AND PEOPLE WILL COME.
BUT IT'S A LOT MORE COMPLICATED
THAN THAT SINCE THEN I AM BACK
I'M VERY PLEASED TO SEE THAT
RETAIL IS BEING PUT BACK.
PART OF WHY I WAS SO EXCITED
BACK THEN WAS BECAUSE I SO
DESPERATELY WANTED A PLACE TO
WALK TO THAT I COULD MEANDER
AND AND WATCH PEOPLE AND ALL
THAT OTHER STUFF AND THAT AREA
IN THIS NEIGHBORHOOD I STILL
LIVE IN THIS NEIGHBORHOOD NOT
AS CLOSE TO A GEORGE DOESN'T
HAVE A WHOLE LOT OF BUSINESS
ESPECIALLY THE MORE SOUTH YOU
GO THE LESS STUFF TO SEE THAT
THERE IS.
SO I'M VERY EXCITED TO SEE A
PLAN FOR USING THAT SPACE
ANECDOTALLY WHEN I WALK THROUGH
THE COURTYARD IS IS PRETTY BUT
THERE AREN'T A LOT OF PEOPLE
THERE.
SOMETIMES I SEE PEOPLE LEAVE
THEIR DOGS THERE.
LET'S THAT'S THE EXTENT
OF WHICH I SEE STUFF HAPPENING
THERE.
I THINK MOST PEOPLE A LOT
OF PEOPLE IF THEY'RE LOOKING
FOR GREEN SPACE ASH PARK IS
RIGHT BEHIND THE GEORGE AND IS
VERY WELL USED.
>> SO I'M JUST VERY HAPPY TO
SEE A PLAN FOR RETAIL HAPPENING
IN MY NEIGHBORHOOD WHERE I CAN
WALK TO AND THAT IS CLOSER TO
PACARD FACING AND I REALLY HOPE
IT WORKS OUT SO THANKS FOR
HAVING A PLAN AND HOPING FOR A
THANK YOU
.
HELLO MY NAME IS ERIC GOLDBERG.
I LIVE IN THIRTY TEN DEXTER
ROAD AND THE FIFTH WARD AND I
WOULD ALSO LIKE TO SPEAK IN
SUPPORT OF THE NEW PROPOSAL FOR
A TWENTY FIVE VOTE TO PACKARD
TO GEORGE.
I THINK IT'S GREAT TO REPLACE
UNUSED PARKING SPACES WITH
HOUSING WE NEED HOUSING
DESPERATELY.
I THINK THIS IS IT LINES WITH
ALIGNS WITH OUR VALUES
OF SUSTAINABILITY, EQUITY
AFFORDABILITY AND ACCESSIBILITY
SO IT SPEAKS TO ALL POINTS
OF VISION ZERO IN THE ELECTORAL
RESULTS GOING BACK SEVERAL
CYCLES MY MY MY I HOPE THAT
THIS GETS APPROVED AND I SPOKE
ABOUT THIS AT COUNCIL LAST
NIGHT BUT I WANTED TO RAISE IT
AGAIN HERE.
MY WIFE AND I MOVED HERE FROM
CALIFORNIA IN TWENTY TWENTY ONE
AND PART OF ONE OF THE MANY
REASONS WE MOVED WAS BECAUSE
OF THE EFFECTS OF CLIMATE
CHANGE ON OUR LIFESTYLE IN THE
BAY AREA WE WERE INHALING A LOT
OF WILDFIRE SMOKE AND IT WAS
NOT A VERY PLEASANT THING.
NOW WE'RE SEEING THE SAME THING
HAPPEN HERE IN ANN ARBOR.
WE'RE EXPOSED TO WILDFIRE SMOKE
FROM CANADIAN WILDFIRES
THOUSANDS OF MILES AWAY EVERY
YEAR AND THIS IS ONLY GOING TO
GET WORSE FOR THE FORESEEABLE
FUTURE.
SO ALTHOUGH WE ARE EXPERIENCING
THIS ANN ARBOR WILL BE A
CLIMATE REFUGE DESTINATION, IT
ALREADY IS AS IT HAS BEEN FOR
FOR FOR ME AND MY WIFE ALREADY.
SO ANYTHING WE CAN DO TO ADD
MORE HOUSING INTO DENSIFY OUR
OUR CITY SO THAT WE CAN HELP
LOWER THE CARBON FOOTPRINT
OF OF ANN ARBOR AS WELL AS ALL
PEOPLE ON THE PLANET AND IT
WILL BE HELPFUL FOR TURNING
AROUND SLOWING HOPEFULLY SOME
DAY TURNING AROUND CLIMATE
CHANGE.
SO YEAH, IN SUMMARY, I DON'T
THINK WE NEED MORE PARKING.
WE NEED MORE HOUSING AND
IMPROVING THE CHARGE WOULD BE A
WIN FOR HOUSING IN OUR CITY.
>> SO THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
MANAGER KELLY, DO WE HAVE ANY
REMOTE WE DO NOT HAVE ANY
REMOTE PARTICIPANTS SO I WILL
CLOSE THE PUBLIC HEARING AND
READ THE MOTION AGAIN OR
ACTUALLY I'LL READ IT FOR THE
FIRST TIME THE ANOVIA PLANNING
COMMISSION HEREBY APPROVES CP
TWO FOUR ZERO ZERO ONE NINE
TWENTY FIVE 02 PACKARD STREET
SITE PLAN VERSION FIVE DATED
AUGUST FIFTEEN TWENTY TWENTY
FOUR AND RECOMMENDS THE CITY
COUNCIL APPROVE A DEVELOPMENT
AGREEMENT FOR A PARK LAND
CAMPAIGN CONTRIBUTION MOVE BY
COMMISSIONER WHETHER IT BE AND
COUNCIL MEMBER DESH WE ARE NOW
IN DISCUSSION WHO'D LIKE TO
KICK US OFF?
>> COMMISSIONER HAMMERSCHMIDT
THANK YOU AND THANK YOU FOR
BRINGING THIS PETITION TO US.
WE ALWAYS APPRECIATE NEW
HOUSING.
I LIKE HOW YOU'VE REORIENTED
THE CIRCULATION THE SITE AS
WELL WHILE STILL MAINTAINING
SOME OF THE GREEN SPACE.
IT'S GREAT TOO THAT THE NEW
BUILDING IS MORE ON GRADE.
I JUST HAVE A FEW QUESTIONS.
CAN YOU REMIND ME IS THE
CURRENT BUILDING ALL ELECTRIC
JUST MINUS I HAVE TO GAS GRILLS
IN THE BACK BUT ALL THE THE
APPLIANCES ARE OUR GUESTS ARE
ELECTRIC SO THERE'S NO GAS LINE
EXCEPT FOR GIRLS.
>> GREG NO SOLAR.
THERE ARE SOME CONDENSERS ON
THE ROOF THAT ARE KIND OF IN
THE WAY WE'VE CONSIDERED IT FOR
THE THE NEW ONE I'VE ACTUALLY
APPROACHED A COUPLE DIFFERENT
SOLAR COMPANIES AND THEY'VE
POINTED OUT SOME ISSUES WITH
THE ROOF IN THE LAYOUT BUT WE
CAN LOOK INTO IT.
I MEAN YEAH, I MEAN WE CAN'T WE
CAN'T REQUIRE IT.
I WOULD ENCOURAGE YOU I KEEP
LOOKING INTO IT.
>> IT'S FREE ENERGY.
YES.
JUST ONE MORE THING AND I'M IN
SUPPORT OF THIS BUT PARK'S
CONTRIBUTION I'M CURIOUS WHY
IT'S GOING BICENTENNIAL PARK
WITH THAT AT THE REQUEST OF THE
PARKS DEPARTMENT I COULDN'T
TELL YOU TO LEAVE.
>> DO YOU KNOW?
YES, IT WAS OK.
I MEAN I NOTICED WHEN I WAS ON
THE MAP THERE'S TWO IN ONE
OF THE SPEAKERS MENTIONED ASH
PARK SO I WASN'T SURE IF WE'D
WANT TO THERE NECESSARY
IMPROVEMENTS TO MAKE TO THOSE
SINCE THEY'RE CLOSER AND
WALKABLE TO THIS SITE.
>> BUT I WILL LET PARKS DO
THEIR THING.
I WAS JUST CURIOUS UM IT CAN
TYPICALLY THE LANGUAGE FOR
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT TALKS
ABOUT CAN BE USED FOR IT NAMES
LOCAL PARKS SUCH AS AND
REGIONAL PARKS SUCH AS I MY
UNDERSTANDING IS THAT THE PARKS
HAS A MORE IMMEDIATE NEED AND A
FUNDING GAP FOR THE SPLASH PAD
THE BICENTENNIAL PARK AND WHICH
IS IN THE SOUTH SIDE OF TOWN
AND THIS PROJECT IT'S ALSO THE
SOUTH SIDE OF TOWN.
IT DOESN'T HAVE TO BE USED FOR
VAIL BUT THAT HAD A MORE
IMMEDIATE NEED AND READY PLANT
SHOVEL READY PLANS COMPARED TO
SOUTH PARK.
BUT UPON REQUEST IT CAN BE
REALLOCATED.
I'M NOT PLANNING ON REQUESTING
JUST I WAS MOSTLY CURIOUS THAT
IS FINE WITH ME.
THEY CAN LEAVE IT SPLASH PETS
ARE GREAT.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH FOR
BRINGING US.
>> THANK YOU COMMISSIONER
WETHERBEE JUST WANTED TO ECHO
THE THANK YOU FOR BRINGING THIS
UP AND THIS BUILDING AND THIS
AREA IS IS TO ME A GOOD EXAMPLE
OF JUST I THINK PEOPLE THINK
OF BUILDINGS AS PERMANENT AND I
THINK THIS IS A REALLY GOOD
EXAMPLE OF IF IT DOESN'T WORK
OUT, LET'S TRY SOMETHING
DIFFERENT.
WE CAN CHANGE BUILDINGS, WE CAN
CHANGE WHAT'S IN THEM.
WE CAN CHANGE KIND OF THE BITS
ON THE OUTSIDE AND I THINK
THAT'S REALLY IT'S A REALLY
HELPFUL THING.
>> WE MAY BE HERE IN 20 YEARS
WHERE WE'RE PUTTING BUILDINGS
ON ALL THEIR PARKING SPOTS AND
GETTING RID OF THOSE PARKING
SPOTS OR WE'RE ADDING OR WE'RE
DOING.
BUT IT'S NICE TO SEE HOUSING
WHEN WE NEED HOUSING AND I
THINK IT'S A GOOD EXAMPLE
OF FINDING FINDING SPACES THAT
WE NEED IN AN EXISTING AREA OR
AN EXISTING DEVELOPMENT.
AND I APPRECIATE THAT.
THANK YOU.
YOU'RE WELCOME.
AND IT'S PROBABLY GOOD FOR IT'S
GOOD FOR EVERYBODY AND
EVERYBODY WANTS COMMISSIONER
NORTON, I THINK THIS IS A GREAT
IMPROVEMENT OVER WHAT'S THERE
AND I AGREE THAT ADDING MORE
HOUSING IS A GREAT IMPROVEMENT
OVER THE EXISTING PARKING.
BUT I JUST WANTED TO MAKE SURE
I HEARD YOU CORRECTLY.
PARKING THAT YOU'RE LOSING IS
NOT A PROBLEM BECAUSE OF THE
CURRENT DEMAND OF YOUR
RESIDENTS FOR THE PARKING YOU
HAVE YOU'RE NOT EXPECTING ANY
DIFFICULTY NOT AT ALL TO
SATISFY THEIR DEMANDS?
>> NOT AT ALL.
YEAH.
LIKE I SAID I'VE I HAD FOUR
HUNDRED FIFTY SEVEN PARKING
SPACES IN THE LOT CURRENTLY MY
CURRENT USE IS AROUND ONE POINT
TWO PER UNIT AND IF YOU APPLY
THAT TO THE UNITS THAT WILL END
UP WITH WEIRD WORK THAT'S WHAT
YOU COME OUT OF .
YEAH YEAH OK IT'S ALMOST LIKE
IT WAS DESIGNED FOR YEAH IT'S
JUST BEEN WAITING TO HAPPEN.
YEAH YEAH I HAVE A QUESTION
JUST OUT OF CURIOSITY DO YOU
HAVE A SENSE OF WHAT THAT
RETAIL WHAT MIGHT GO INTO YOUR
CONVENIENCE STORE OR A
COFFEE SHOP OR ANYTHING LIKE
THAT.
YOU KNOW I HEAR YOU KNOW IT'S
GOING TO BE DRIVEN BY THE
COMMUNITY AND WHAT THEY NEED
IDEALLY LIKE A CONVENIENCE
STORE WOULD BE GREAT TO ME JUST
BECAUSE I THINK THAT'S KIND
OF WHAT EVERYONE IN MY BUILDING
IS LOOKING FOR AS WELL.
BUT THE MARKET TO THE MARKET
AND I'M SURE IT'S GOING TO I'M
SURE IT WILL BE SOME SORT
OF SERVICE OF THAT NATURE.
>> IS THERE SPACE OUT THE FRONT
FOR THE ONE ONE COMMENTER SAID
WOULDN'T IT BE GREAT TO GO TO A
COFFEE SHOP AND WOULD IT BE
NICE TO BE ABLE TO SIT AND
WATCH PEOPLE?
I'M WONDERING IF SPACE ON THE
PACKARD SIDE IF A COFFEE SHOP
GOES THERE PEOPLE COULD
ACTUALLY DINE OUTSIDE.
>> WELL, NO, YOU'D HAVE TO WALK
UP TO THE UP TO THE SIDEWALK IN
ORDER TO DO THAT BECAUSE IT'S
JUST A LITTLE GRADE BUT BECAUSE
WE BUILT THE LOFTS IT'LL BE
DOUBLE HEIGHT SO YOU CAN SEE IT
BUT YOU'RE NOT CAN BE ABLE TO
REALLY GO OUT THERE.
I MEAN I COULD HAVE I COULD
HAVE SITTING ON A SIDEWALK ON
THE INSIDE BUT I DON'T REALLY
THINK THAT WOULD BE SOMETHING
SO ATTRACTIVE.
BUT I MEAN THERE'S PLENTY
OF ABILITY TO WALK AROUND AND
IN THE NEW IN THE NEW I GUESS
GARDEN THAT WE'RE WE'RE
BUILDING.
>> YEAH, THAT'S FINE.
I WAS JUST CURIOUS BELIEVE ME,
I'D LOVE FOR IT TO BE UP ON
PACARD BUT YEAH YEAH WELL YES I
THINK THIS IS A GREAT
IMPROVEMENT.
THANK YOU COMMISSIONER LEE GOOD
STRATEGIC AND HEALTH AND
SUPPORT.
>> THANK YOU
.
ARE WE READY TO VOTE MANAGER
KELLY CAN WE DO A WE
NEED TO DO
A ROLL CALL VOTE OR CAN WE DO A
VOICE VOTE?
>> WHAT CAN WE DO HERE?
I WOULD PREFER TO DO A ROLL
CALL.
WELL THEN WE WILL DO WHAT YOU
PREFER.
>> THANK YOU.
UH, WISCH YES.
>> HAMMERSCHMIDT YES.
LEE YES.
>> YES YES.
WHETHER IT BE YES.
ADAMS YES.
NORTON YES.
THAT CARRIES GOOD LUCK.
THANK YOU FOR BRINGING ME ALL
MY THANKS.
ALL RIGHT.
THAT TAKES US TO TENBY UTC TEXT
AMENDMENT FOR MARIJUANA SCHOOL
BUFFER WE HAVE BEFORE US A
PROPOSED UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT
CODE AMENDMENT OF CHAPTER FIFTY
FIVE OF THE CODE OF THE CITY
OF ANN ARBOR TO SECTION FIVE
POINT SIXTEEN POINT THREE POINT
F MARIJUANA FACILITIES
COMMERCIAL USE SPECIFIC
STANDARDS TO REMOVE SCHOOL
SEPARATION REQUIREMENTS REQUIRE
SUBMISSION OF NERA SCHOOL
LOCATIONS WITH ANY RELATED
SPECIAL EXCEPTION USE PERMIT
APPLICATION AND OTHER
MODIFICATIONS.
WE WILL START WITH A STAFF
PRESENTATION FROM MANAGER
LONARD.
>> OH THIS WHAT IT'S LIKE ON
THE OTHER SIDE OF THE ROAD.
OH HERE IS WHERE THANK YOU
H.R.H. AT RISK OF BORING YOU
WITH THE STAFF REPORT THAT I'M
THAT YOU HAVE ALL ALREADY READ
IN DETAIL I WILL HIGHLIGHT A
COUPLE OF COMPONENTS OF THAT
FOR THE BENEFIT OF EVERYBODY
LISTENING.
IN AUGUST OF THIS YEAR THE
UNIVERSITY COUNCIL PASSED A
RESOLUTION ASKING THE PLANNING
COMMISSION TO CONSIDER FOR
QUESTIONS WHETHER OR NOT THE
ONE THOUSAND FOOT SEPARATION
REQUIREMENT FROM MARIJUANA
BUSINESSES AND K THROUGH 12
SCHOOLS SHOULD BE REDUCED
CITYWIDE OR IN CERTAIN
DISTRICTS.
I'LL GET TO WHY THAT WAS KIND
OF THE PRIME QUESTION WHETHER A
SPECIAL EXCEPTION IS PERMIT IS
APPROPRIATE DESIGNATION FOR
MARIJUANA FACILITIES, WHETHER
OTHER PROVISIONS REGARDING
MARIJUANA GROWERS, PROCESSORS
OR OTHER BUSINESSES SHOULD BE
AMENDED AND WHETHER THERE
SHOULD BE CONTINUE TO BE A CAP
OF TWENTY EIGHT RETAILERS IN
THE CITY WE PROVIDE AS THE
STATE AND ITS VARIOUS
LEGISLATIVE MACHINATIONS HAS
APPROVED BOTH MEDICAL MARIJUANA
AND ADULT USE MARIJUANA.
THE CITY HAS RESPONDED WITH
MAKING THE REGULATORY CHANGES
TO MAKE SURE THOSE BUSINESSES
ARE PERMITTED IN THE CITY
ACCORDINGLY WE ALLOW ALL THE
BUSINESSES THAT THOSE STATE
LAWS TO PROVIDE AS SUMMARIZED
IN PAGE TWO THE STAFF REPORT
MANY OF THEM WERE ESTABLISHED A
SPECIAL EXCEPTION USES THE LONG
HISTORY OF EVOLUTION OF THIS
REGULATORY FRAMEWORK STARTED IN
TWENTY SIXTEEN WHEN THE MEDICAL
MARIJUANA FACILITIES LICENSING
ACT WAS CREATED .
THIS CREATED A PROVISIONING
CENTERS AMONG SOME OTHER
BUSINESS TYPES AND PROVISION
CENTERS WERE ESSENTIALLY THE
FIRST CLEARLY STATE ENABLED
BUSINESSES WHERE YOU COULD OPEN
A STOREFRONT SELL MARIJUANA
PRODUCTS AS MEDICAL AS MEDICAL
TREATMENT AND THAT ACT
CREATED NO ESTABLISH NO
SEPARATION'S FROM THOSE
FACILITIES FROM SCHOOLS.
WHEN THAT STATE LAW WAS ENACTED
NONETHELESS LOCALLY WE DID WE
ESTABLISHED ONE THOUSAND FOOT
SEPARATION REQUIREMENTS FROM A
PARCEL IN WHICH A PUBLIC
PRIVATE SCHOOL WAS LOCATED.
>> BOTH THIS AND THE
ESTABLISHMENT OF THESE USES AS
A SPECIAL EXCEPTION IS WAS I
THINK IN PART CRAFTING
REGULATIONS BECAUSE WE WERE
FRANKLY UNCERTAIN ABOUT HOW
THIS NEW INDUSTRY WAS GOING TO
BE REALIZED IN OUR COMMUNITY
AND WHAT IMPACT IT MIGHT HAVE
AT THE TIME THAT WE HAD THERE
WERE OTHER STATES THAT HAD
RECENTLY LEGALIZED MARIJUANA
SALES OF SOME OF SOME TYPES AND
WE HEARD A LOT OF COMMUNITY
EXPERIENCE WHERE SEEMINGLY IN
SOME OF THOSE STATES THERE WERE
MARIJUANA BUSINESSES ON EVERY
CORNER OR BECOMING SO POPULAR
ARE SORT OF CONCENTRATED AMONG
OTHER BUSINESS DISTRICTS THAT
THERE WAS SOME CONCERNS ABOUT
WHETHER OR NOT IT WOULD UNDULY
HAVE SORT OF A DRIVING OUT
IMPACT OF SOME OF BUSINESSES
HERE IN THE CITY.
AND SO IN ADDITION TO
SEPARATION REQUIREMENTS FROM
SCHOOLS, WE ALSO ESTABLISHED
ONE ANOTHER AND ALSO
SEPARATION REQUIREMENTS FROM
ESTABLISHED MANY OF THE USES AS
ONE ANOTHER AND ALSO
SPECIAL EXCEPTION USE PERMITS
ESTABLISHED MANY OF THE USES AS
THAT AS THE PLANNING COMMISSION
SPECIAL EXCEPTION USE PERMITS
KNOWS THIS IS WORTHWHILE
THAT AS THE PLANNING COMMISSION
BECAUSE IT DOES PROVIDE THE
KNOWS THIS IS WORTHWHILE
PLANNING COMMISSION WITH SOME
BECAUSE IT DOES PROVIDE THE
DISCRETION TO CONSIDER THE
PLANNING COMMISSION WITH SOME
CONTEXTUAL ASPECT OF HOW THAT
DISCRETION TO CONSIDER THE
PROPOSAL IS GOING TO BE
CONTEXTUAL ASPECT OF HOW THAT
SITUATED AT THAT SITE, HOW
PROPOSAL IS GOING TO BE
ACCESS TO IT IS, HOW
SITUATED AT THAT SITE, HOW
TRANSPORTATION MIGHT IMPACT AND
ACCESS TO IT IS, HOW
AND BE MORE OR LESS ACCESSIBLE
TRANSPORTATION MIGHT IMPACT AND
TO THAT FACILITY.
AND BE MORE OR LESS ACCESSIBLE
SO IT PROVIDES THE PLANNING
TO THAT FACILITY.
COMMISSION WITH AN ELEVATED
SO IT PROVIDES THE PLANNING
OPPORTUNITY TO CONSIDER THE
COMMISSION WITH AN ELEVATED
CONTEXT OF THAT BUSINESS IN A
OPPORTUNITY TO CONSIDER THE
PARTICULAR LOCATION.
CONTEXT OF THAT BUSINESS IN A
IN TWENTY EIGHTEEN MICHIGAN
PARTICULAR LOCATION.
VOTERS APPROVED A PROPOSAL
IN TWENTY EIGHTEEN MICHIGAN
WHICH HAD THE EFFECT
VOTERS APPROVED A PROPOSAL
OF CREATING A NEW LEGISLATIVE
WHICH HAD THE EFFECT
FRAMEWORK WHICH IS THE
OF CREATING A NEW LEGISLATIVE
TAXATION, THE MICHIGAN
FRAMEWORK WHICH IS THE
REGULATION AND TAXATION THE
TAXATION, THE MICHIGAN
MARIJUANA ACT.
REGULATION AND TAXATION THE
I HOPE I GOT THAT RIGHT.
MARIJUANA ACT.
PROFESSOR NORTON.
I HOPE I GOT THAT RIGHT.
>> AND THAT WAS ESSENTIALLY THE
PROFESSOR NORTON.
CREATING RECREATIONAL USE
>> AND THAT WAS ESSENTIALLY THE
MARIJUANA IN THE STATE
CREATING RECREATIONAL USE
OF MICHIGAN AT THAT TIME
MARIJUANA IN THE STATE
BECAUSE WE DON'T LIKE TO DO
OF MICHIGAN AT THAT TIME
ANYTHING LOGICAL.
BECAUSE WE DON'T LIKE TO DO
WE DIDN'T CARRY FORTH
ANYTHING LOGICAL.
PROVISIONING CENTERS BUT WE
WE DIDN'T CARRY FORTH
ESTABLISHED A NEW BUSINESS
PROVISIONING CENTERS BUT WE
CALLED THE MICHIGAN RETAILERS
ESTABLISHED A NEW BUSINESS
SAME PREMISE.
CALLED THE MICHIGAN RETAILERS
>> THIS WAS A STOREFRONT THAT
SAME PREMISE.
WAS NOW ALLOWING A BUSINESS TO
>> THIS WAS A STOREFRONT THAT
OPEN UP, ESTABLISH A STOREFRONT
WAS NOW ALLOWING A BUSINESS TO
AND ANY INDIVIDUAL OR TWENTY
OPEN UP, ESTABLISH A STOREFRONT
ONE YEARS OLD OLDER COULD GO IN
AND ANY INDIVIDUAL OR TWENTY
AND PURCHASE MARIJUANA FOR
ONE YEARS OLD OLDER COULD GO IN
RECREATIONAL USE THAT ACT DOES
AND PURCHASE MARIJUANA FOR
AT THE STATE LEVEL REQUIRE A
RECREATIONAL USE THAT ACT DOES
SEPARATION REQUIREMENT OF CAVEN
AT THE STATE LEVEL REQUIRE A
FROM ABOVE ONE THOUSAND FEET
SEPARATION REQUIREMENT OF CAVEN
FROM K THROUGH 12 SCHOOLS
FROM ABOVE ONE THOUSAND FEET
UNLESS THE COMMUNITY
FROM K THROUGH 12 SCHOOLS
SPECIFICALLY REDUCES THAT
UNLESS THE COMMUNITY
REQUIREMENT THROUGH KWATINETZ
SPECIFICALLY REDUCES THAT
OVER TIME WE HAD BEEN RELYING
REQUIREMENT THROUGH KWATINETZ
ON WE BEING PLANNING STAFF HAD
OVER TIME WE HAD BEEN RELYING
BEEN RELYING ON THE APPLICATION
ON WE BEING PLANNING STAFF HAD
OF OUR ORDINANCE WHEN WE BACK
BEEN RELYING ON THE APPLICATION
UP IN ADDITION TO THE ONE
OF OUR ORDINANCE WHEN WE BACK
THOUSAND FOOT REQUIREMENT THERE
UP IN ADDITION TO THE ONE
WAS ALSO A PROVISION OF THAT
THOUSAND FOOT REQUIREMENT THERE
THAT RECREATIONAL MARIJUANA ACT
WAS ALSO A PROVISION OF THAT
THAT CITIES COULD NOT PASS A
THAT RECREATIONAL MARIJUANA ACT
LAW THAT WOULD PREVENT A
THAT CITIES COULD NOT PASS A
PROVISIONING CENTER THAT IS THE
LAW THAT WOULD PREVENT A
MEDICAL SELLER FROM ALSO ACTING
PROVISIONING CENTER THAT IS THE
AS A RETAIL CENTER.
MEDICAL SELLER FROM ALSO ACTING
SO WE HAD THIS SORT
AS A RETAIL CENTER.
OF CONUNDRUM AT THAT POINT THAT
SO WE HAD THIS SORT
WE HAD TO CONSIDER.
OF CONUNDRUM AT THAT POINT THAT
AND SO OUR RESPONSE TO THAT WAS
WE HAD TO CONSIDER.
TO BASICALLY AMEND OUR
AND SO OUR RESPONSE TO THAT WAS
DEFINITION OF PROVISIONING
TO BASICALLY AMEND OUR
CENTER TO BE PARALLEL WITH WHAT
DEFINITION OF PROVISIONING
THE RETAILER WAS.
CENTER TO BE PARALLEL WITH WHAT
IF WE CAN'T PROHIBIT A
THE RETAILER WAS.
PROVISIONING VENDOR FROM ACTING
IF WE CAN'T PROHIBIT A
AS A RETAILER, LET'S JUST
PROVISIONING VENDOR FROM ACTING
DEFINE THEM BOTH LITERALLY THE
AS A RETAILER, LET'S JUST
SAME USER AND THAT'S WHAT WE
DEFINE THEM BOTH LITERALLY THE
DID THROUGH THAT EVOLUTION.
SAME USER AND THAT'S WHAT WE
WE HAD SEVERAL PROVISIONING
DID THROUGH THAT EVOLUTION.
CENTERS AND LATER RETAILERS
WE HAD SEVERAL PROVISIONING
THAT WERE ESTABLISHED THAT WERE
CENTERS AND LATER RETAILERS
WITHIN 1000 FEET OF A BUILDING
THAT WERE ESTABLISHED THAT WERE
THAT HAD A KINDERGARTEN USED
WITHIN 1000 FEET OF A BUILDING
SPECIFICALLY AS PART OF A CHILD
THAT HAD A KINDERGARTEN USED
CARE CENTER AND HAD A
SPECIFICALLY AS PART OF A CHILD
KINDERGARTEN CLASSROOM THAT WAS
CARE CENTER AND HAD A
ISSUED PERMITS BY THE CITY.
KINDERGARTEN CLASSROOM THAT WAS
IT WAS ALSO ISSUED PERMITS BY
ISSUED PERMITS BY THE CITY.
THE STATE RECENTLY THE STATE
IT WAS ALSO ISSUED PERMITS BY
HAS NOW INDICATED THAT THEY
THE STATE RECENTLY THE STATE
WILL NOT GRANT PERMITS FOR
HAS NOW INDICATED THAT THEY
THOSE FACILITIES BECAUSE OF THE
WILL NOT GRANT PERMITS FOR
PRESENCE AND HOW THE
THOSE FACILITIES BECAUSE OF THE
RECREATIONAL ACT SPECIFICALLY
PRESENCE AND HOW THE
DEFINES THROUGH TO ALL SCHOOLS
RECREATIONAL ACT SPECIFICALLY
WHICH IS ESSENTIALLY ANY SITE
DEFINES THROUGH TO ALL SCHOOLS
PROVIDING ANY K THROUGH 12
WHICH IS ESSENTIALLY ANY SITE
EDUCATION WHICH IS A LITTLE BIT
PROVIDING ANY K THROUGH 12
DIFFERENT AND HOW WE USED TO
EDUCATION WHICH IS A LITTLE BIT
DEFINE SCHOOLS.
DIFFERENT AND HOW WE USED TO
SO NOW WE HAVE SEVERAL
DEFINE SCHOOLS.
FACILITIES THAT ARE WITHIN A
SO NOW WE HAVE SEVERAL
THOUSAND FEET THAT HAVE LONG
FACILITIES THAT ARE WITHIN A
BEEN ESTABLISHED, LONG BEEN
THOUSAND FEET THAT HAVE LONG
OPERATING AND HAVE NOT
BEEN ESTABLISHED, LONG BEEN
ACCORDING TO OUR POLICE
OPERATING AND HAVE NOT
DEPARTMENT HAVE NOT HAD ANY
ACCORDING TO OUR POLICE
PROBLEMS LET ALONE ANY PROBLEMS
DEPARTMENT HAVE NOT HAD ANY
RELATIVE TO ANY PROXIMITY OR
PROBLEMS LET ALONE ANY PROBLEMS
DISTANCE FROM SCHOOLS.
RELATIVE TO ANY PROXIMITY OR
SO BASED ON THAT, WHAT I HAVE
DISTANCE FROM SCHOOLS.
PROVIDED TO YOU IN THE ATTACHED
SO BASED ON THAT, WHAT I HAVE
PACKET IS A PROPOSED UDC CHANGE
PROVIDED TO YOU IN THE ATTACHED
THAT WOULD STRIKE THE 1000 FOOT
PACKET IS A PROPOSED UDC CHANGE
REQUIREMENT FROM MARIJUANA USE
THAT WOULD STRIKE THE 1000 FOOT
FACILITIES AND SPECIFICALLY
REQUIREMENT FROM MARIJUANA USE
INDICATE THAT WE ARE HERE BY
FACILITIES AND SPECIFICALLY
NOT ESTABLISHING ANY MINIMUM
INDICATE THAT WE ARE HERE BY
STATUTE FOR THE SAKE OF THAT
NOT ESTABLISHING ANY MINIMUM
RECREATIONAL STATE REQUIREMENT
STATUTE FOR THE SAKE OF THAT
THAT ONE THOUSAND FOOT SQUARE
RECREATIONAL STATE REQUIREMENT
ONE THOUSAND SEPARATION IS
THAT ONE THOUSAND FOOT SQUARE
BEING REMOVED FROM NOT ONLY
ONE THOUSAND SEPARATION IS
PROVISIONING CENTERS RETAILERS
BEING REMOVED FROM NOT ONLY
BUT ALSO FROM MICRO BUSINESSES
PROVISIONING CENTERS RETAILERS
AND DESIGNATED CONSUMPTION
BUT ALSO FROM MICRO BUSINESSES
FACILITIES AS TO THE OTHER
AND DESIGNATED CONSUMPTION
QUESTIONS IS SPECIAL EXCEPTION
FACILITIES AS TO THE OTHER
YOU STILL APPROPRIATE USE FOR
QUESTIONS IS SPECIAL EXCEPTION
THESE USES?
YOU STILL APPROPRIATE USE FOR
I THINK IT IS ARGUABLE.
THESE USES?
IT'S ARGUABLE.
I THINK IT IS ARGUABLE.
I DON'T THINK THESE USERS HAVE
IT'S ARGUABLE.
HAD I THINK THE ADVERSE IMPACT
I DON'T THINK THESE USERS HAVE
ON OUR COMMUNITY THAT SOME
HAD I THINK THE ADVERSE IMPACT
FEARED WHEN THEY WERE FIRST
ON OUR COMMUNITY THAT SOME
STARTING TO BE ESTABLISHED
FEARED WHEN THEY WERE FIRST
CIRCA TWENTY EIGHTEEN
STARTING TO BE ESTABLISHED
NONETHELESS WE HAVE A PRETTY
CIRCA TWENTY EIGHTEEN
GOOD FRAMEWORK OF THESE AND
NONETHELESS WE HAVE A PRETTY
SPECIFICALLY IF WE ARE GOING TO
GOOD FRAMEWORK OF THESE AND
BE ELIMINATING ANY SPECIFIC
SPECIFICALLY IF WE ARE GOING TO
LOCATION OR REQUIREMENTS AS IT
BE ELIMINATING ANY SPECIFIC
RELATES TO SCHOOLS KEEPING THEM
LOCATION OR REQUIREMENTS AS IT
A SPECIAL EXCEPTION USES I
RELATES TO SCHOOLS KEEPING THEM
STILL THINK GIVES THE PLANNING
A SPECIAL EXCEPTION USES I
COMMISSION THE OPPORTUNITY TO
STILL THINK GIVES THE PLANNING
CONSIDER THE CONTEXTUAL
COMMISSION THE OPPORTUNITY TO
LOCATION OF ANY FUTURE
CONSIDER THE CONTEXTUAL
FACILITIES.
LOCATION OF ANY FUTURE
SO AT THIS TIME I'M PROPOSING
FACILITIES.
ANY CHANGE THE TYPES OF PERMIT
SO AT THIS TIME I'M PROPOSING
TO CONVERT ANY OF THOSE FROM
ANY CHANGE THE TYPES OF PERMIT
SPECIAL EXCEPTION TO PERMITTED
TO CONVERT ANY OF THOSE FROM
USES OTHER MODIFICATION OR
SPECIAL EXCEPTION TO PERMITTED
PROCESSES BE CONSIDERED ALSO
USES OTHER MODIFICATION OR
PROPOSING PROPOSING THAT WE
PROCESSES BE CONSIDERED ALSO
REMOVE THAT SAME SEPARATION
PROPOSING PROPOSING THAT WE
FROM MARIJUANA GROWERS AND ONE
REMOVE THAT SAME SEPARATION
OTHER JUST MINOR CHANGE IS NOT
FROM MARIJUANA GROWERS AND ONE
HIGHLIGHTED IN THE STAFF REPORT
OTHER JUST MINOR CHANGE IS NOT
BUT IT IS IN THE TEXT.
HIGHLIGHTED IN THE STAFF REPORT
ONE OF THE REQUIREMENTS IS THAT
BUT IT IS IN THE TEXT.
THESE BUSINESSES PROVIDE
ONE OF THE REQUIREMENTS IS THAT
REGULAR UTILITY SURVEY OF HOW
THESE BUSINESSES PROVIDE
MUCH WATER AND POWER THEY'RE
REGULAR UTILITY SURVEY OF HOW
USING TO THE CITY CLERK'S.
MUCH WATER AND POWER THEY'RE
I'M PROPOSING TO CHANGE THAT TO
USING TO THE CITY CLERK'S.
YOU UPON REQUEST BY THE CITY
I'M PROPOSING TO CHANGE THAT TO
CLERK.
YOU UPON REQUEST BY THE CITY
I HONESTLY DON'T THINK IT'S
CLERK.
BEEN HAPPENING ON A REGULAR
I HONESTLY DON'T THINK IT'S
BASIS BUT THIS WOULD STILL
BEEN HAPPENING ON A REGULAR
PROVIDE THE OPPORTUNITY IF
BASIS BUT THIS WOULD STILL
SOMETHING WE WANTED WE COULD
PROVIDE THE OPPORTUNITY IF
REQUEST OF ANY OF THESE
SOMETHING WE WANTED WE COULD
BUSINESSES.
REQUEST OF ANY OF THESE
LASTLY, SHOULD THERE BE A CAP
BUSINESSES.
OF TWENTY EIGHT RETAILERS IN
LASTLY, SHOULD THERE BE A CAP
THE CITY?
OF TWENTY EIGHT RETAILERS IN
THIS IS REALLY NOT A UDC.
THE CITY?
THIS IS ACTUALLY IN OUR
THIS IS REALLY NOT A UDC.
LICENSING ORDINANCE A DIFFERENT
THIS IS ACTUALLY IN OUR
CHAPTER.
LICENSING ORDINANCE A DIFFERENT
SO TECHNICALLY CITY COUNCIL CAN
CHAPTER.
CONSIDER WHATEVER THAT IS
SO TECHNICALLY CITY COUNCIL CAN
WITHOUT YOUR OPINION.
CONSIDER WHATEVER THAT IS
NONETHELESS I AM PRESENTING
WITHOUT YOUR OPINION.
THAT IF THE PLANNING COMMISSION
NONETHELESS I AM PRESENTING
IS INTERESTED IN THAT AND IT'S
THAT IF THE PLANNING COMMISSION
INCORPORATED IN THE MOTION THE
IS INTERESTED IN THAT AND IT'S
ELIMINATION OF THE TWENTY EIGHT
INCORPORATED IN THE MOTION THE
BUSINESS CAP
THE RATIONALE THAT
I'M PRESENTING FOR THAT IS THAT
THAT CAP IS ESTABLISHED AGAIN
FOR SOME OF THE AFOREMENTIONED
CONCERNS THAT HOW WIDESPREAD IT
MIGHT BE IN OUR COMMUNITY AS WE
SIT TODAY WE HAVE ISSUED TWENTY
SPECIAL EXCEPTION USES FOR
THESE RETAIL SITES PROVISIONING
BUSINESSES BUT ONLY ABOUT
TWENTY ONE OF THEM ARE
CURRENTLY OPERATING ONE OF THE
REASONS THAT I THINK THAT THAT
CAN HAPPEN IS SPECIAL
EXCEPTION.
THESE PERMITS ACTUALLY RUN THE
LAND.
SO IF A BUSINESS IS ESTABLISHED
AND IT'S NOT A GREAT FIT FOR
THEM FOR WHATEVER REASON YOU
JUST HAD A PROJECT THAT WAS
TALKING ABOUT SOME OF THE
PECULIARITIES ABOUT RETAIL ON
ONE PARTICULAR SITE WHEN THE
SPECIAL EXCEPTION WAS IS LOCKED
TO A PARCEL OF LAND.
IT'S REALLY LOCKING THE ABILITY
OF THAT BUSINESS TO HAVE TO
STAY THERE RATHER THAN BEING
SORT OF MORE PORTABLE TO EASILY
MOVE SOMEWHERE ELSE BY
ELIMINATING THE CAP WE WOULD
OPEN THE OPPORTUNITY FOR ANY
EXISTING BUSINESS OR NEW
BUSINESS TO PRESENT TO THE
PLANNING COMMISSION THE CITY
THE OPPORTUNITY IN THIS CASE
FOR A SPECIAL EXCEPTION IS
STILL WOULD HAVE TO SUBMIT THE
LOCATIONAL REQUIREMENTS OF SIX
HUNDRED FEET FROM SIMILARLY
SITUATED BUSINESSES STILL BEING
THE APPROPRIATE ZONING
DISTRICTS.
BUT THAT MIGHT PROVIDE SOME
ADDITIONAL OPPORTUNITY FOR
BUSINESSES TO FIND PERHAPS MORE
FUNCTIONAL PRACTICAL LOCATIONS
IN THE MARKET.
WHEREAS NOW ONCE WE'VE
ESTABLISHED TWENTY EIGHT
SPECIAL EXCEPTIONS PERMITS
ALLOCATED THOSE ANYBODY NEW
COMES TO US WE HAVE TO SAY NO.
WE'VE ALREADY ALLOCATED OUR
LICENSES AND EVEN THOUGH THEY
ARE CLOSED IT'S NOT AS SIMPLE
AS THEM CLOSING OUR DOORS AND
THAT SPECIAL EXCEPTION IS
EXPIRING.
SO BASED ON THAT I AM PROPOSING
THAT WE ELIMINATE THAT TWENTY
EIGHT RETAILER CAP.
>> I'M ALSO PROPOSING WE
ELIMINATE THAT CAP FOR MICRO
BUSINESSES AND DESIGNATED
CONSUMPTION FACILITIES AS WELL
AND THAT I'M HAPPY TO ANSWER
ANY QUESTIONS.
>> THANK YOU.
WE WILL START WITH A PUBLIC
HEARING BEFORE WE GET TO
QUESTION FROM THE COMMISSION TO
YOU.
SO WE NOW HAVE A DEDICATED
PUBLIC HEARING FOR THIS MATTER.
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
INDIVIDUALS TO SPEAK UP TO
THREE MINUTES ON THE PROPOSED
UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT AMENDMENT
TO
THAT F WE WILL FIRST HEAR
FROM THOSE WHO ARE PRESENT HERE
IN THE CHAMBERS IN REMOTE
PARTICIPANTS TO SPEAK FOR
MATLEY PRESS NINE ON PHONE ARE
THERE ARE REMOTE PARTICIPANTS?
>> NO ONE WITH THEIR HAND
RAISED.
>> OK, I'LL DO THIS THAT
BRUSSTAR NINE IF ON PHONE OR
USE THE SAME FEATURE IN ZOOME
FOR PHONE ACCESS DIAL EIGHT
SEVEN SEVEN EIGHT FIVE THREE
FIVE FOUR SEVEN AND
INTERMEETING ID NINE SEVEN
SEVEN SIX SIX THREE FOUR ONE
TWO TWO SIX.
CITY STAFF WILL IDENTIFY
CALLERS BY THE LAST THREE
DIGITS OF THEIR PHONE NUMBER OR
BY NAME IF ONE ZOOME YOU'LL
HEAR AN ANNOUNCEMENT WHEN IT'S
YOUR TURN TO SPEAK PLEASE MOVE
TO A QUIET AREA MUTE ANY
BACKGROUND NOISE FOR ALL
PARTICIPANTS WHETHER PRESENT IN
THE CHAMBERS OR ONLINE PLEASE
STATE YOUR NAME AND ADDRESS AT
THE BEGINNING OF YOUR COMMENTS.
IS THERE ANYONE PRESENT IN THE
CHAMBER WHO WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK
ON THIS MATTER
?
>> HELLO AGAIN.
YEAH I WANT TO SPEAK ON THIS
MARIJUANAS AMENDMENT.
I THINK I THINK IT MAKES SENSE
TO NOT WORRY SO MUCH ABOUT
THESE DISPENSARY BUSINESSES AND
I FEEL LIKE IN MICHIGAN
ESPECIALLY IF YOU DRIVE UP
NORTH YOU SEE A LOT
OF BILLBOARDS FOR THESE TYPES
OF BUSINESSES AND THEY DO SEEM
LIKE THEY'RE KIND OF BECOMING
VERY COMMON WHICH CAN BE MAYBE
JUST A LITTLE BIT ANNOYING IF
YOU DON'T USE THEM THAT OFTEN
OR AT ALL.
BUT I THINK WHEN IT COMES TO
SORT OF LIKE GETTING INTO THE
WEEDS PARDON THE PUN OF OF
OF LEGISLATING LOCATION NO.
IF IT STARTS TO FEEL LIKE A
LITTLE BIT MICROMANAGEMENT, A
LITTLE BIT SIM CITY PERHAPS
IT'S JUST IT JUST DOESN'T SEEM
TOO PRODUCTIVE ESPECIALLY WHEN
I TO MY KNOWLEDGE I DON'T THINK
WE HAVE TOO MANY LAWS AROUND
DISTANCE FROM HIGHWAYS OR
PROBABLY THERE ARE FOUR
FACTORIES BUT PLACES THAT SELL
LIQUOR TOBACCO IT SEEMS I DON'T
TO MY KNOWLEDGE I THINK THERE
MIGHT BE SOME DISTANCE
REQUIREMENTS FOR THOSE IN
MICHIGAN BUT THEY MIGHT
ACTUALLY EVEN BE LESS THAN A
THOUSAND FEET.
OH I SEE SOMEBODY OK SO YEAH IT
JUST SEEMS LIKE MAYBE IT'S TIME
TO NOT WORRY ABOUT IT SO MUCH
AND IF THERE'S AN
OVERSATURATION OF OF THESE
TYPES OF BUSINESSES IN THE CITY
THEN THEY WON'T BE VIABLE AND
THEY'LL JUST DO IT ALL OTHER
TYPES OF BUSINESSES DO THEY
JUST WILL GO OUT OF BUSINESS
AND OTHER BUSINESSES WILL TAKE
THEIR PLACE AND I THINK THE
MARKET WILL KIND OF TAKE CARE
OF IT FOR FOR US.
SO YEAH, I THINK IT MAKES SENSE
TO MAYBE EASE OFF ON THE
CONTROL FOR THESE TYPES
OF BUSINESSES.
THANK YOU.
HELLO ROCKSMITH CHARLETON ALSO
IN SUPPORT OF REMOVING ALL THE
STUFF WE DON'T REGULATE THESE
DISTANCES FOR THINGS LIKE
PARKING GARAGES THAT PRODUCE PM
2.5 THAT'S ACTUALLY DANGEROUS
TO THE PEOPLE NEARBY.
SIMILARLY FOR GAS STATIONS TO
BREATHE VOLATILE ORGANICS,
WE'RE NOT GOING TO DO STUFF FOR
THINGS ARE ACTUALLY HARMING THE
PEOPLE AROUND THEM.
GANTLEY WE SHOULDN'T DO IT FOR
THESE VERY NON NUISANCE
BUSINESSES.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
.
DID OUR VOTE PARTICIPANT RAISE
THEIR HAND?
>> UH, A NEW REMOTE PARTICIPANT
HAS RAISED THEIR HAND.
ALEX LOW YOU HAVE THREE MINUTES
TO ADDRESS THE PLANNING
COMMISSION.
HI THIS IS SLOANE TWENTY FIVE
THANK YOU.
THE BY AND FIFTY FIFTY
COMMENTING TO MAKE SURE THE
COMMISSIONER DIDN'T FEEL LIKE
HE WASTED HIS TIME BY GIVING
THE SPEECH ABOUT HOW TO COMMENT
AND IN SUPPORT OF OF OF THIS AS
OTHER SPEAKERS HAVE POINTED OUT
IT'S A LITTLE BIT PURITANICAL
TO FACE LIMITATIONS ON
SOMETHING LIKE THIS BUT NOT ON
I'D SAY GAS STATIONS OR OR
HIGHWAYS.
SO IF IF HAVE LEGISLATION LET'S
HAVE GOOD LEGISLATION AND I
DON'T THINK THAT THE THE
CURRENT VERSION OF THIS IS GOOD
LEGISLATION.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
.
>> THERE ARE NO FURTHER HANDS
RAISED.
THANK YOU.
MANAGER KELLY.
SO WITH THAT I WILL CLOSE THE
PUBLIC HEARING.
I WILL NOW READ THE MOTION.
THE ENTIRE CITY PLANNING
COMMISSION HEREBY RECOMMENDS
THAT THE MAYOR AND THE CITY
COUNCIL APPROVE THE FOLLOWING
AMENDMENT TO CHAPTER FIFTY FIVE
UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT
CODE SECTION FIVE POINT SIXTEEN
POINT THREE POINT F SPECIFIC
USE REQUIREMENTS MARIJUANA
FACILITIES BE AMENDED TO REMOVE
SCHOOL SEPARATION MINIMUMS AND
OTHER MODIFICATIONS AS ATTACHED
AND THE NARBERTH CITY PLANNING
COMMISSION RECOMMENDS REMOVAL
OF THE TWENTY EIGHT MARIJUANA
RETAIL FACILITY CAP SPECIFIED
AND CHAPTER NINETY FIVE OF THE
CITY OF THE CODE OF THE CITY
OF ANN ARBOR MOVE BY
COMMISSIONER LEE SECONDED BY
COMMISSIONER HAMMERSCHMIDT WE
ARE IN DISCUSSION AND IT LOOKS
LIKE COMMISSIONER NORTON WILL
KICK US HAVE A BUNCH
OF QUESTIONS FOR YOU.
>> YOU MIGHT HAVE GUESSED FIRST
ON THE FUELING STATION I'M
LOOKING AT THE UDC FUELING
STATIONS ARE NOT PERMITTED
EVERYWHERE AND THEY ARE
PERMITTED BY SPECIAL EXCEPTION
USED IN A NUMBER OF DISTRICTS
AS OUR MOBILE AS OUR A COUPLE
OF RELATED USES AUTOMOBILE
TRUCK CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT
REPAIR, THAT KIND OF STUFF.
>> SO IT'S NOT THE CASE THAT WE
ARE NOT REGULATING OTHER
NOXIOUS USES THROUGHOUT THE
CITY DRIVE THROUGH.
THIS IS ANOTHER EXAMPLE THAT
ARE SPECIAL EXPERIENCES
DISTRICTS.
SO HAVING SAID THE CARE CENTERS
AREN'T DAY CARE CENTER SPECIAL
EXCEPTIONS ARE NOT ANYMORE.
>> OH GOOD.
>> UM SO I'M NOT LET START OFF
BY SAYING I DON'T PARTICULARLY
FIND MARIJUANA TO BE SOMETHING
I LIKE TO SMELL.
I'M NOT A CARE OF IT BUT I
UNDERSTAND THAT PEOPLE ARE AND
THAT IT'S BEEN PERMITTED ACROSS
THE STATE AND WE NEED TO BE
CONSISTENT WITH THAT.
>> IT MAKES SENSE TO ME IF
WE'VE NOT HAD ANY PROBLEMS
ESPECIALLY TO REMOVE THE SPACE
CONSTRAINTS IT PROBABLY MAKES
SENSE TO RETAIN THEM SPECIAL
EXCEPTION USES TO IF IN FACT
THERE ARE REASONS THAT WE MIGHT
WORRY ABOUT IMPACTS THEY MIGHT
HAVE BUT LET ME SEE HERE
CLEARLY I AM NOT THE CITIES
COUNCIL BUT I KNOW THAT WHEN
YOU ESTABLISH THINGS A SPECIAL
EXCEPTION USES AND THEN YOU
DON'T PROVIDE CLEAR CRITERIA
FOR WHAT YOU'RE GOING TO
REQUIRE OR STANDARDS YOU CAN
GET YOURSELF INTO TROUBLE.
SO I'M JUST WONDERING IF YOU'VE
BEEN CONFERRING WITH THE CITY
COUNCIL ON WHAT WOULD GO ALONG
WITH THAT SPECIAL EXCEPTION
CONTINUED SPECIAL EXCEPTION YOU
DESIGNATION IN TERMS
OF CRITERIA ESPECIALLY SINCE
WE'RE MOVING NOW SOME OF THE
CLEAR STANDARDS THAT WOULD HAVE
APPLIED WELL THE SAME SPECIAL
EXCEPTION THESE CRITERIA WOULD
APPLY.
WE HAVE CRITERIA THAT APPLIES
TO ANY SPECIAL EXCEPTION USE
REGARDLESS OF MARIJUANA
BUSINESS, A DRIVE THROUGH A GAS
STATION AND CERTAIN CERTAIN
DISTRICTS SO AS I SAID, A LOT
OF THAT IS CONTEXTUAL THINKING
ABOUT HOW THAT WAS USED
FUNCTIONS IN THE CONTEXT OF ITS
ENVIRONS.
IT'S PARTICULAR ENVIRONMENT.
THAT'S WHY IT GOES WITH
PROPERTY RATHER THAN SORT
OF WITH A BUSINESS OR A PERSON.
SO THOSE CRITERIA WILL REMAIN
THOSE WOULD STAY IN PLACE AND
IT WAS ABSOLUTELY STAY IN PLACE
AND AND BUT I THINK IT'S ALSO
THE POINT HE YOU MENTIONED FOR
EXAMPLE, ONE OF THESE
BUSINESSES WERE ESTABLISHED AT
THIS INDUSTRY FIRST OF ALL IS
REGULATED LIKE NO INDUSTRY THAT
I'VE SEEN.
IT'S REGULATED MORE SO THAN THE
SALE OF ALCOHOL.
I SUSPECT IT'S REGULATED MORE
SO THAN THE SALE OF GASOLINE.
IT IS ROBUST.
I REMEMBER SOMETHING LIKE THE
FIRST BUSINESSES THAT WERE OPEN
HAD WERE NOT ONLY SUBJECT TO
OUR LOCAL BUSINESS REQUIREMENTS
LIKE A DOZEN OR A DOZEN OR
TWENTY STATE INSPECTIONS BY
DIFFERENT AGENCIES.
IT'S SEED TO SALE TRACKING IT
IS HIGHLY
REGULATED BUT THE
SPECIAL EXCEPTION USE ALSO
PROVIDED US THIS BODY THE
OPPORTUNITY TO THINK ABOUT
SPECIFIC CRITERIA THAT MIGHT
APPLY TO THAT SITUATION.
FOR EXAMPLE, I THINK
OF EXAMPLES WHERE SOME WERE
VERY CLOSE TO A RESIDENTIAL
AREA AND THIS BODY IMPOSED
HOURS OF OPERATION LIMITS ON
THAT BUSINESS BASED ON ITS
PROXIMITY INITIALLY A LOT
OF THEM THIS MODEL ACCEPTED USE
CRITERIA WERE FRANKLY RESTATING
SOME OF THE STATE REQUIREMENTS
ABOUT SECURING YOUR HOME OR A
LIMITING ACCESS.
THEY STARTED EVOLVING TO THINGS
FRANKLY LIKE OPPORTUNITIES FOR
SOME INCREMENTAL SITE
COMPLIANCE MAYBE IN AN EXISTING
SITE THAT WASN'T UP TO CURRENT
STANDARDS.
I CAN THINK OF EXAMPLES
OF GETTING RID OF NONCONFORMING
SIGNAGE, PARKING LOT
IMPROVEMENTS, ADDING BIKE
PARKING AND WE'VE ALSO USED IT
AS A MECHANISM.
IT'S AN ADDITIONAL MECHANISM
FRANKLY FOR OUR NUISANCE LAWS.
SO IF YOU OR SOMEBODY FOR
EXAMPLE THAT FINDS THE SMELL
OF MARIJUANA OBJECTIONABLE
TECHNICALLY THE THOSE
FACILITIES YOU SHOULDN'T BE
ABLE TO SENSE THE SALE AT THE
PROPERTY LINE.
AND SO WITH THE SPECIAL
EXCEPTION USED BECAUSE THAT'S
SORT OF AN KNOW POTENTIAL
ENFORCEMENT TOOL THAN OUR
TYPICAL NUISANCE CITATIONS.
OK, SO THAT MAKES SENSE.
MY OTHER QUESTION AND I HAVE
NOT THOUGHT ABOUT THIS BEFORE
BUT IT CAN THE CITY ON ITS OWN
INITIATIVE GO BACK AND REVISIT
PLACES WHERE WE'VE ISSUED
GRANTED SPECIAL PERMITS AND
NOTE THAT THEY'RE NOT BEING
TAKEN ADVANTAGE OF ANYMORE AND
THERE'S NO REASON TO CONTINUE
THEM AND REMOVE THEM?
IS THAT IT HAS WE EVER DONE
THAT?
IS IT POSSIBLE HAVE YOU THOUGHT
ABOUT THAT?
>> YEAH.
SO WE DO HAVE SPECIFIC LANGUAGE
IN OUR ORDINANCE THAT SAYS WHEN
A SPECIAL EXCEPTION YOU SEE ITS
OPERATION FOR A PERIOD OF TWO
YEARS THE SPECIAL EXCEPTION
USES LOST OK IT IS NOT ALWAYS
THAT CUT AND DRY.
SOMETIMES THEY'RE MY
UNDERSTANDING THIS IS WHERE I
WOULD START HAVING TO RELY ON
OUR CITY COUNCIL BUT MY
PERCEPTION FOR EXAMPLE OF A
BUSINESS CLOSING AND A TIME
EXPIRING MIGHT NOT BE THE
SHARED VISION FOR SOMEBODY
WHOSE BUSINESS IS CLOSE AND
THEY'VE BEEN WORKING BEHIND THE
SCENES FOR A YEAR OF THAT TIME
TO RECONCILE THE OWNERSHIP
ISSUE OR A STATE PERMITTING
ISSUE OR SOMETHING LIKE THAT.
AND SO WE DO HAVE PROVISIONS I
WILL SAY THAT WE OF FACILITIES
THAT ARE CLOSED I WORK CLOSELY
WITH THE CLERK'S OFFICE.
THE ISSUES ARE LOCAL BUSINESS
PERMITS FOR THESE TO TRACK WHAT
THAT DATE IS.
WE WILL ATTEMPT TO USE THAT AS
A TOOL WHEN ONE EXPIRES AND
THERE DOESN'T SEEM TO BE AN
OPPORTUNITY FOR THAT BUSINESS
TO REOPEN TO OPEN THAT UP MAYBE
FOR ANOTHER USER BUT IT IS
SOMETIMES IT CAN BE NOT AS NOT
AS CUT AND DRY AS A DATE
PASSING BUT AGAIN THAT'S
SOMETHING YOU ARE TRUCKING IN
AWARE OF AND BECAUSE UNLEASHING
THE CAR I MEAN IN OUR WORST
CASE HYPOTHETICAL SCENARIO,
MOST OF THE CITY COULD
ULTIMATELY BE EFFECTIVELY ZONED
TO ALLOW MARIJUANA FACILITIES
IF IF INAPPROPRIATE ZONING
DISTRICTS STILL SUBJECT TO A
MAXIMUM A MINIMUM 600 FOOT
SEPARATION OF RETAILER TO
RETAILER.
SO THEY'RE STILL LOOKING.
>> SO YOU'RE THINKING THROUGH
ALL OF THAT OK?
YEAH OK.
JUST CHECKING THANK THANK YOU.
COMMISSIONER NORTON.
COMMISSIONER ADAMS.
YEAH.
>> SO I GUESS THIS IS LAWYER
TIME.
THIS IS JUST MAYBE A PIECE
OF FEEDBACK TO CHAT WITH THE
CITY ATTORNEY ABOUT SOMETHING
THAT I NOTICED WHEN I READ THE
LANGUAGE.
I THINK THE PROPOSAL MAKES A
LOT OF SENSE AND IT'S WELL PUT
TOGETHER WHEN YOU SAY AT THE
START OF ONE OF THE CLAUSES NO
MINIMUM SEPARATION IS REQUIRED
FROM PUBLIC OR PRIVATE SCHOOLS
PROVIDING ANY EDUCATION IN
KINDERGARTEN THROUGH GRADE
TWELVE.
>> YOU HAVE TO READ YOU HAVE TO
KNOW ABOUT THAT THAT TWENTY
EIGHTEEN STATE LAW TO
UNDERSTAND WHAT THAT'S DOING
THAT WORK THAT'S DOING IN THE
SECTION AND WHEN I UNDERSTOOD
THAT CONTEXT I WENT OH WELL
THAT MAKES SENSE WHY WE'RE
SAYING THAT WE HAVE TO SAY THAT
MY CONCERN IS THAT SOMEBODY
COULD TAKE THE POSITION THAT
THAT'S IN FACT THE LEGISLATIVE
DIRECTION NOT TO CONSIDER YOU
CANNOT YOU CAN'T CONSIDER THAT
IN GRANTING THIS GRANTING OR
DENYING THE SPECIAL EXEMPTION
USE THAT THAT'S A LEGISLATIVE
COMMAND THAT YOU CAN'T SET
MINIMUM PROXIMITY.
IT SORT APPLICATION BY
APPLICATION AS TO AN APPLICANT
SAYING WE DENY IT BECAUSE
YOU'RE TOO CLOSE, SOMEONE MAY
TURN AROUND AND SAY WELL YOUR
CODE SAYS THAT YOU CAN'T
CONSIDER PROXIMA THAT WAY AND I
WOULD JUST RUN THAT BY THE CITY
ATTORNEY'S OFFICE AND MAYBE ADD
A SENTENCE SOMEWHERE THAT SAYS
AND PROXIMITY IN ADDITION TO
HAVING TO BE THE APPLICATION
CAN BE A BASIS TO DENY THE
SPECIAL EXEMPTION USE.
>> THAT'S ALL.
THANK YOU, COMMISSIONER ADAMS.
OTHER COMMISSIONERS
COMMISSIONER WETHERBEE.
MR. LATERITE, YOU DID SAY
SOMETHING ABOUT THE REMOVING
THE WATER AND ELECTRICITY SO
SOMETHING IS THAT KIND
OF DISARRAY SOMETHING
COMMISSIONER WHETHER CAN I ASK
YOU TO SPEAK INTO YOUR
MICROPHONE?
SORRY I'M NOT USED TO HAVING
SOMEBODY OVER ON THE SIDE
OF THIS OVER THE SORT
OF ENVIRONMENTAL CONDITIONS.
IS THAT JUST KIND OF IN THE
OTHER MODIFICATIONS AS
ATTATCHED IN THE OR.
>> YEAH.
THE ORDINANCE FOR MICRO
BUSINESSES AND FOR GROWERS
REQUIRES HAS AN ANNUAL
REPORTING REQUIREMENT, A
WRITTEN REPORT OR DOCUMENTATION
THE ENERGY USED WATER USED IN
SANITARY SEWER DISCHARGE FROM
THE MARIJUANA BUSINESS SHALL BE
SUBMITTED TO THE CITY CLERK AND
SO THAT ESTABLISHED THAT THAT
HAPPENS ON AN ANNUAL BASIS.
I DON'T WANT THIS ORDINANCE TO
BE THAT LANGUAGE TO BE LIKE WE
HAVE NO STANDARDS BY WHICH TO
CONSIDER THAT IT'S JUST MORE
INFORMATIONAL.
SO I DON'T WANT THAT TO SOMEHOW
COME INTO PLAY THAT IF SOMEBODY
DIDN'T SUBMIT THAT IN ONE YEAR
THAT THEY'RE SOMEHOW NOT IN
COMPLIANCE WITH OUR ORDINANCE.
SO I'M JUST PROPOSING TO KEEP
IT AS A REPORTING REQUIREMENT
BUT IT'S UPON REQUEST.
SO ANY TIME THAT THE CITY ASKS
YOU FOR THAT INFORMATION YOU
ARE OBLIGATED TO PROVIDE THAT
INFORMATION.
BUT IF FOR SOME REASON WE NEVER
ASK AND YOU DON'T SUBMIT, IT'S
NOT LIKE YOU ARE IN VIOLATION
OF OUR LAW, DOES THAT ANSWER
YOUR QUESTION?
YEAH, I JUST IS THAT IS THAT IN
OUR MOTION?
IT'S IN THE ATTACHED ORDINANCE
YOU COULD BE CONSIDERING IT'S
PETROLOGY IF I COULD JUST HAVE
DONE ONE THING THAT I FORGOT MY
STAFF REPORT.
>> SURE I AM PROPOSING TO
ELIMINATE THE MINIMUM
REQUIREMENT BUT AS TO THE
QUESTION COMMISSIONER ADAMS WAS
JUST ASKING, I DID ADD LANGUAGE
THAT WHENEVER A SPECIAL
EXCEPTION USES BEEN SUBMITTED
THAT THE PETITION HAS TO
INCLUDE THE NEAREST TWO SCHOOLS
THAT THEY ARE AWARE OF SO THAT
FOR THE PURPOSE THAT
COMMISSIONER ADAMS WAS
REFERENCING WE HAVE THAT
INFORMATION.
THEY WE'RE NOT SAYING THAT THAT
IS GROUNDS FOR DENIAL OR
APPROVAL OF IT, BUT IT GIVES
YOU SPECIFIC CONTEXT GIVEN I
JUST IT WAS FRANKLY KIND OF A
NOD TO THE HISTORY OF THIS
LANGUAGE IF THIS GETS REMOVED
THAT THAT WAS SOMETHING WE
CONSIDERED AND WE WOULD STILL
BENEFIT FROM HAVING THAT
INFORMATION TO THE EXTENT THAT
YOU WANT TO CONSIDER IT IN YOUR
DELIBERATE THANK YOU.
OTHER COMMISSIONERS
COMMISSIONER DISH I JUST WANT
TO MAKE SURE THAT I'M FOLLOWING
ALL OF THIS BECAUSE THE CHANGES
OF THE WAY THINGS ARE
DESIGNATED IN THE WAYS THAT
WE'VE ADAPTED TO STATE LAW HAVE
BEEN NOT NECESSARILY AS
STRAIGHTFORWARD AS I KNOW.
>> NO, YOU ARE FINE.
>> I THINK THE HISTORY IS WEIRD
SO IS IS IT IS IT RIGHT TO SAY
THAT CURRENTLY EFFECTIVELY IF
WE'RE AT THE CAP A PERSON'S
LICENSE IS ACTUALLY TIED TO THE
PARCEL FOR WHICH THEY'VE
RECEIVED A SPECIAL EXCEPTION
USE IF WE'RE AT THE CAP
EFFECTIVELY.
>> YES AND YEAH IF YOU IF WE
HAVE GRANTED YOU SPECIAL ACCEPT
USE PERMIT FOR ONE, TWO, THREE
MAIN STREET AND FOR SOME REASON
THAT BUSINESS LOCATION DOESN'T
WORK.
YOU'RE NOT THE OWNER.
>> THE RENT SKYROCKETS.
IT'S JUST NOT A GOOD LOCATION
FOR SOME REASON YOU DON'T HAVE
THE ABILITY TO PORT THAT
SPECIAL EXCEPTION TWO THREE
SEVEN FIVE MADE AND BECAUSE
THOSE TIME FACTORS AND IN IN
PLACE THERE IS A CLOCK SO IT'S
EVEN IF YOU CLOSE YOUR BUSINESS
IT'S NOT LIKE INSTANTANEOUS YOU
THAT YOU WOULD SAY OH WE CLOSED
MY BUSINESS SO THERE'S AN EXTRA
PERMIT OUT BECAUSE THERE'S AN
EXTINGUISHING TIME FRAME OF TWO
YEARS AND THE ORDINANCE WE
CAN'T IMMEDIATELY JUST PRESUME
THAT THAT PROPERTY NO LONGER
WILL EVER HAVE A SPECIAL
EXCEPTION USE PERMIT.
>> SO YES, THANK YOU.
YOU'RE ZEROING IN ON EXACTLY
THE THING I'M TRYING TO FULLY
UNDERSTAND.
>> SO IT'S BECAUSE IT'S A
SPECIAL EXCEPTION USE FOR A
MARIJUANA FACILITY SPECIFICALLY
AT ANY SPECIAL EXCEPT IN USE
BECAUSE IT IS CONTEXTUALLY
SPECIFIC.
IT IS FOR THE PROPERTY EXAMPLE
AND THAT'S GRANTED IS GRANTING
A MARIJUANA BUSINESS AT THAT
LOCATION.
IT IS GRANTING A GAS STATION AT
THAT LOCATION BECAUSE GRANTING
A DRIVE THRU AT THAT LOCATION
BECAUSE YOU ARE CONSIDERING
THAT USE WHICH IS PREVIOUSLY
IDENTIFIED AS BEING WORTHY
OF SOME ADDITIONAL SCRUTINY
CRITERIA OF THE SPECIAL
EXCEPTION IS RATHER THAN JUST
BLINDLY APPROVING IT AND YOU
ARE CONCLUDING IT IS OK AT THAT
LOCATION IN THE WAY IT'S BEING
AND SO THAT MEANS IT DOES NOT
HAVE PORTABILITY IF THERE WERE
AN EXISTING LICENSE IF WE
WEREN'T AT THE CAP AND I WANTED
TO MOVE YOU COULD APPLY.
I COULD APPLY.
I WOULD HAVE CLOSED MY BUSINESS
FOR WHICH I HOLD A LICENSE AND
THERE IS A SPECIAL EXCEPTION
USE WHICH STILL HAS TO CLOSE
OUT FOR AFTER TWO YEARS OR
EXPIRE IN TWO YEARS BUT I COULD
MOVE SO AT CURRENTLY BECAUSE
WE'RE NOT AT OUR CAT WE ARE AT
OK WE ARE AT AACAP OH YOU OK
THEN THIS IS SOMETHING THAT I'M
NOT OH SOME ARE CLOSED SOME ARE
CLOSED BUT WE ARE NOT SO IN
THAT TIME PERIOD I CANNOT I
CANNOT SIT HERE AND SAY THAT
THEY WILL NOT REESTABLISH AT
THAT LOCATION AND THEY STILL
LEGALLY HAVE THE RIGHT TO DO
THAT.
>> OK SO BECAUSE THE SPECIAL
EXCEPTION USE HAS THE WHILE TO
EXPIRE THE LICENSE
WE CAN'T SAY
THAT THE LICENSE WE HAVE TO
COUNT THAT.
YEAH OK SORRY THAT IS THANK
YOU.
OK NOW MY MATH IS GOOD MY
UNDERSTANDING IS SOLID.
>> YEAH WE HAVE TWENTY EIGHT
LESSONS PROVISIONING CENTER
RETAILERS MY UNDERSTANDING IS I
THINK TWENTY ONE OF THEM ARE
CURRENTLY OPEN I THINK THE
FIRST ONE THAT WOULD COME OFF
OF LIKE THAT TO YOUR CLOCK IS
SOMETIME IN TWENTY TWENTY SIX
IF IT IS NOT REESTABLISH AT
THAT LOCATION WE HAVE ONE
DESIGNATED CONSUMPTION FACILITY
ESTABLISHED AND WE HAVE ONE
MICRO BUSINESS ESTABLISHED SO
OUT OF TWENTY EIGHT TWENTY
EIGHT TWENTY EIGHT WE HAVE
TWENTY EIGHT ONE ONE.
THANK YOU.
ANY OTHER COMMISSIONERS.
>> ALL RIGHT WE'LL GO TO
COMMISSIONER LEE THEN TO
COMMISSIONER HAMMERSCHMIDT OK
THANK YOU.
THANKS FOR BRINGING US FORWARD.
I'M LOOKING AT THE FOUR
QUESTIONS WHETHER THE THOUSAND
FOOT SEPARATION SHOULD BE
REDUCED CITYWIDE FROM MY
STANDPOINT IN SO LONG AS THE
SIU STANDARDS ARE STILL KIND
OF APPLIED, I THINK I'M OK WITH
THIS CONCEPT OF THE ELIMINATION
AND JUST COMMISSIONER NORTON,
YOUR POINT ON THE SPECIAL
EXCEPTION USE NOT BEING SERIOUS
OR NOT HAVING STANDARDS THAT
SHOULD BE APPLIED GENERALLY I
THINK THERE'S PROTECTION SO FAR
FIVE POINT TWO NINE FIVE I WAS
LOOKING AT A FEW OF THE
SPECIFIC STANDARDS ASSOCIATED
SO THINGS LIKE SECURITY PLANS
AND THEN THEY DO HAVE THINGS
LIKE INTENSITY, CHARACTER
TRAFFIC, PARKING CONDITIONS,
STANDARDS OF DENSITY ETC. LET
ME JUST ACTUALLY PULL UP TO THE
CORRECT LANGUAGE ALL OF THAT
SAID AS I PULL THIS UP I THINK
I'M OK WITH THE CONCEPT OF THE
BEING A SPECIAL EXCEPTION.
USE THE QUESTION ON THE CAP.
TWENTY EIGHT RETAILERS I'M A
LITTLE BIT HESITANT ABOUT THE
ELIMINATION OF THE CAP ENTIRELY
RATHER THAN EXPANSION LIKE A
LIQUOR LICENSE FOR EXAMPLE,
AVAILABILITY IS GENERALLY
CALCULATED ON PER NUMBER
OF INHABITANTS LIKE POPULATION
SIZE AND LIKE PER FIFTEEN
HUNDRED PEOPLE OR THINGS LIKE
THAT.
SO CAUTION MIGHT BE LIKE
WHETHER TO CONSIDER IT AS A
FUNCTION OF POPULATION SIZE HAS
TO SAY HEY WHAT IF WE TESTED IT
FOR EXAMPLE THREE THOUSAND
PEOPLE PER LICENSE OR SOMETHING
ALONG THOSE LINES THAT WOULD
RESULT IN ABOUT ASSUMING A
HUNDRED TWENTY FOUR THOUSAND
PEOPLE AROUND LIKE FORTY FORTY
ONE ISH LICENSES.
SO IT GIVES KIND OF A NATURAL
BREATHING ROOM IN TERMS
OF RATIOS.
UM, JUST ONE OF THE THINGS THAT
I KIND OF LIKE CONCERNED ABOUT
IS LIKE IS EVERY GAS STATION IN
THE CITY THAN GOING TO APPLY
FOR LIKE A SPECIAL EXCEPTION
USED ON EVERY CORNER KIND
OF THING.
RIGHT.
JUST TO HAVE THAT KIND
OF AVAILABILITY.
>> AND SO I'M A LITTLE BIT
RETICENT OR JUST A LITTLE BIT
HESITANT ON THE COMPLETE
ELIMINATION OF THE CAP BUT
RATHER MAYBE WE TETHER IT TO A
RATIO KIND OF LIKE HOW THE
LIQUOR LICENSE COMMISSION FOR
EXAMPLE DOES IT.
>> THE OTHER THING THAT I WANT
TO JUST PAUSE IT FOR
CONSIDERATION WOULD BE AN
EVALUATIVE KIND OF TIME LINE
WHETHER IT'S TWENTY FOUR THIRTY
SIX MONTHS NOT SO FORMAL OF A
MECHANISM TO SAY LIKE THIS
SUNSET'S AND THEN WE HAVE TO
LIKE REVIEW BUT I'D LIKE TO
HAVE SOME MECHANISM BY WHICH WE
KIND OF LIKE LOOK BACK TWENTY
FOUR MONTHS AND THIS IS
ACTUALLY PROBABLY MORE BROADLY
WHETHER IT'S LIKE USE OR
ANYTHING THAT WE PASSED TO HAVE
SOME KIND OF FORMAL MECHANISM
BY WHICH WE LOOK AT IT TWO
YEARS LATER AND SAY OK THIS
THIS IS THIS HAD THE INTENDED
EFFECT THAT WE WERE THINKING OR
IT DID NOT BUT FOR THIS AGAIN I
THINK IN SO LONG AS A SPECIAL
EXCEPTION USE AND CONSIDERATION
OF AN IMPACT ON THE ENVIRONMENT
EMANATION, PERFORMANCE
STANDARDS, ALL THAT GOOD STUFF
,I THINK I'M OK WITH THAT
CONCEPT.
THE CAP AGAIN HESITANT SHOULD
BE CONSIDERATION FOR TETHERING
TO POPULATION AND THEN THINK
ABOUT EVALUATIVE TIMELINE BY
WHICH WE LOOK AT THAT.
SO THAT WOULD BE MY
CONSIDERATION.
THANKS.
THANK YOU COMMISSIONER LEE.
COMMISSIONER HAMMERSCHMIDT,
THANK YOU.
MARIJUANA SO FUN ABOUT
COMMISSIONER MILLER'S WISH SHE
WAS HERE SINCE SHE GOT ALL
OF THIS.
IS THERE DEMANDER A WAITING
LIST FOR NEW LICENSES?
>> ONE SPECIAL EXCEPTION USE
PERMIT FOR SOME ADDRESS ON S
UNIVERSITY THAT THE SPECIFIC
ADDRESS ESCAPES ME RIGHT NOW
THAT WE HAD ACCEPTED SHORTLY
AFTER WE HAD APPROVED THE
TWENTY EIGHTH ONE BUT WE HAVE
NEVER HAD ONE OF THE INITIAL
TWENTY EIGHT STOP STOP BUSINESS
AND THE TWO YEARS EXPIRE.
WHAT OUR EXPERIENCE HAS BEEN AS
THIS INDUSTRY IS REALLY GOING
THROUGH A SETTLING OUT WHERE
NOT ONLY SOME BUSINESSES ARE
CLOSING THERE HAS BEEN
SEEMINGLY ONGOING MERGERS AND
ACQUISITIONS AND REBRANDING AND
THE LIKE AND SO OF THE TWENTY
EIGHT WE HAVE NEVER WE'VE NEVER
GOTTEN TO A POINT WHERE ONE
OF THOSE HAS OFFICIALLY OPENED
UP WHERE WE CAN GO TO THAT
PROJECT.
I DON'T EVEN KNOW IF THEY'RE
STILL INTERESTED BUT WE DO HAVE
ONE FORMALLY IN THE QUEUE THAT
IF ONE WERE TO OPEN UP THAT
WOULD BE THE FIRST ONE WE WOULD
SAY OK YOU GET THE FIRST
APPLICATION OK, I THINK I'M OK
ON REMOVING THE CAP AND SORT
OF LETTING THE MARKET REGULATE
ITSELF.
I DID LIKE WHAT YOU JUST
POSITED AND I WAS THINKING THAT
BEFORE YOU SAID IT BUT YOU SAID
IT MUCH NICER LIKE WE COULD
REVISIT THIS AND CHANGE THE
ORDINANCE AGAIN IF ALL OF A
SUDDEN THERE'S LIKE A FREE FOR
ALL ON PERMITS FOR THESE NOW
I'M AFRAID NOT A PROVISIONING A
RETAIL RETAILERS.
>> OH YEAH.
ALTHOUGH THAT'S A GOOD POINT.
>> MOST OF THESE HAVE MY
UNDERSTANDING IS MOST HAVE
ABANDONED THE PROVISIONING
CENTER ASPECT OF THEIR BUSINESS
AND MOST OF THEM FUNCTION JUST
AS RETAILERS AT THIS POINT
OF RECREATIONAL IT'S JUST SO
CONFUSING.
>> SO I WAS I HAD WRITTEN THIS
DOWN AS A QUESTION AND THEN
SORT OF CAME UP DURING THE
PUBLIC HEARING.
SO THERE IS NOT A REQUIREMENT
FOR LIQUOR STORE DISTANCES FROM
K THROUGH 12 THAT YOU ARE AWARE
OF ?
>> CORRECT.
I AM CURIOUS FOR THESE CENTERS
THAT WE'RE FINDING NOW TO BE I
GUESS SORT OF IN NONCOMPLIANCE
BECAUSE THERE'S THE K WHAT ARE
THEY LIKE WHAT IS THE DISTANCE
LIKE HOW MUCH LESS THAN A
THOUSAND FEET.
>> YEAH I THINK THE I THINK
THERE ARE THREE FACILITIES THAT
ARE WITHIN A THOUSAND FEET 450
SOUTH MAIN WHICH FOR THOSE THAT
MIGHT ORIGINALLY REMEMBER IS
THE RABBIT CLUB WHEN IT FIRST
CAME THROUGH.
>> BUT I REMEMBER NOW THAT'S ON
SOUTH MAIN SOUTH OF ACTUALLY
MIEUX HAS A MURAL ON THE
BUILDING.
>> THAT ONE I BELIEVE IS ABOUT
TO SEE YEAH.
>> BUILDING WITH GREAT HISTORY.
THINK I KNEW SHE WOULD A
BOMBING.
>> YEAH IT'S A BOMBING.
THAT ONE I THINK IS ABOUT 250
FEET ROUGH SOUTH ACTUALLY
ACROSS FROM THE CLINE LOT I
THINK IS ABOUT 300 AND FIFTY
FEET PERHAPS AND THEN THE
PROVISION CENTER ON RESEARCH
PARK DRIVE NEAR THE TWO HOTELS
DOWN THERE THAT ONE IS ABOUT
SEVEN HUNDRED AND FIFTY FEET
FROM US TO SCHOOL IN THE
RESEARCH.
>> OK, TWO FIFTY AND THREE
FIFTY IS DEFINITELY I THOUGHT
THEY'D BE MORE SO THAT SO AND
YOU SAID THAT THE LOT LINE A
LOT LINE LIKE CORNER TO CORNER
SO I'M THAT'S I CAN TRY TO LOOK
IT UP IF YOU LIKE I MEAN IT'S
YEAH IT'S NOT LIKE YOU'RE LIKE
WELL THEY'RE ALL NINE HUNDRED
FEET AND SO LET'S REMOVE THE
RIGHT OK AND AND LIKE YOU SAID
THE POLICE DEPARTMENT HAS
INDICATED NO NOTHING REALLY
THEY'RE JUST OUT OF COMPLIANCE
WITH THIS PART OF THE OK I
AGREE I THINK WITH EVERY ONE
THAT'S SAID ANYTHING ABOUT
KEEPING THE SIU THAT I WOULD I
MEAN WE HAVE THAT CONTROL OVER
SO MANY OTHER SEVERAL OTHER
THINGS AND I LIKE THE
SUGGESTION THAT COMMISSIONER
ADAMS BROUGHT UP JUST TO MAKE
SURE THAT BY SAYING THIS WE'RE
NOT SHOOTING OURSELVES IN IT SO
TO SPEAK WITH A PETITIONER
COMING IN AND SAYING LIKE WHAT
YOU SAID BECAUSE I 250 FEET IS
NOT NEXT DOOR.
>> YOU KNOW?
SO I THINK AND THEN THE SCHOOLS
WOULD BE NOAD WOULD THEY BE
NOTICED IF THERE'S SOMETHING
GOING UP WITHIN LIKE IS IT FIVE
HUNDRED THE SPECIAL EXCEPTION
YOU WOULD REQUIRE NOTIFICATION
WITH FOUR PROPERTIES WITHIN
THREE HUNDRED FEET TO USE.
>> OK, SO LIKE WAS THE SCHOOL
THAT'S IN TWO HUNDRED AND FIFTY
FEET NOTICED THEY PROBABLY
WOULD'VE BEEN RIGHT OK OK
THANKS.
OK I HAVE SOME QUESTIONS UM
THANKS FOR BRINGING THIS FOR
ANYONE AND FOLLOWING ALONG AT
HOME IT WAS INTERESTING TO ME
THAT MARIJUANA IS SPELLED TWO
DIFFERENT WAYS.
IT'S SPELLED WITH AN H BECAUSE
OF THE NINETEEN THIRTY SEVEN
STATE LAW THAT DECIDED TO SPELL
IT AS AN H AND THEN IT WOULD
REQUIRE AN ACT OF THE
LEGISLATURE TO CHANGE THE
SPELLINGS SO IT IS USED WITH A
J IN NONOFFICIAL PURPOSES.
SO THAT WAS FOR YOUR TRIVIA
TONIGHT EVERYONE TAKE A DRINK.
ALL RIGHT FROM THERE I THINK
THE MY QUESTIONS ARE MORE
HYPOTHETICAL.
>> I WISH I COULD HAVE SENT
THEM TO YOU OFFLINE TO GET YOUR
ANSWERS BUT I'M GOING TO RUN
THE RISK OF ASKING YOU THEM
HERE AT THE TABLE.
I'LL RUN THE RISK OF ANSWERING
.
I KNOW.
AND SO I REMEMBER WHEN I FIRST
JOINED THE PLANNING COMMISSION
A RESIDENT CAME TO US BECAUSE A
CONVENIENCE STORE WAS BEING
CONVERTED INTO A RETAIL
MARIJUANA PLACE.
I BELIEVE ON ELSWORTH AND IT
BACKS UP TO THOSE CONDOMINIUMS
THERE AND THEY FELT SORT OF PUT
OFF BECAUSE IT JUST HAPPENED
WITH NO NOTICE, WITH NO SORT
OF CONVERSATION AND WHEN YOU
LOOK AT IT BECAUSE IT WAS A
CONVENIENCE STORE, IT JUST HAD
A BACK FENCE AND THE BACK FENCE
BACKED UP TO SOMEONE'S BACK
YARD.
>> SO IT WAS REALLY, REALLY
TIGHT.
SO AS I WAS LOOKING AT ALL
OF THIS, I THINK THE THE
THOUSAND FOOT NOTICE SORT
OF MAKES SENSE AS A MEMBER
OF CLERGY WHEN ANYONE
WANTS TO
GET AN ALCOHOL PERMIT THAT ARE
WITHIN A 500 TO 1000 FEET OF A
CHURCH, THEY MUST OBTAIN THE
PERMISSION OF THE CHURCH IN
ORDER TO GRANT THAT LICENSE,
WHICH IS SOMETHING I DISCOVERED
WHEN WE WERE ASKED TO GRANT
SOMEONE'S LICENSE.
AND SO IT'S LIKE OH, I COULD BE
A HERE.
I WASN'T FOR THE RECORD.
>> SO WHAT I'M WONDERING ABOUT
IS THIS ALL MAKES SENSE WITH
OUR CURRENT UDC AND WITH OUR
CURRENT ZONING IT BEGINS TO
MAKE LESS SENSE TO ME IF YOU
ONLY GO TO THREE DISTRICTS
BECAUSE I WONDER AND THIS IS
THE HYPOTHETICAL WHERE PLANNING
STAFF IS THINKING ABOUT THE
PLACEMENT OF THESE CURRENTLY
THEY ARE RESTRICTED TO SEE ONE
D ONE D TO C TO BE C THREE TO
ONE AND IN FOUR SECURE
TRANSPORT C TO BE C THREE AND
THEN FOR THE GROWING ASPECT AR
E RESEARCH AH I DON'T KNOW I
FORGET WHAT AH YES THAT'S WHAT
I THOUGHT IT WAS ANOTHER
RESEARCH L AND THEN M ONE SO DO
YOU BELIEVE THAT THESE WOULD
ALL MOVE INTO A HUB BECAUSE
WITH OUR MIXED USE ACROSS ALL
OF THOSE POTENTIAL DISTRICT
CATEGORIES A DISPENSARY COULD
OPEN UP IN A PLACE WHERE IT WAS
PREVIOUSLY NOT PERMITTED
BECAUSE THAT ZONING DISTRICT
HAS GONE AWAY?
>> YEAH.
ARE YOU TRACKING YOUR AND
THAT'S THAT'S GOING TO BE YOU
ARE GOING TO HAVE TO MAKE ONE
HUNDRED DECISIONS LIKE THAT AS
YOU THINK ABOUT CONSOLIDATING
YOUR DISTRICTS, MARIJUANA
BUSINESSES INCLUDED.
SO GENERALLY I WOULD THINK
BASED ON THE FRAMEWORK HOW THIS
COMMISSION HAS BEEN TALKING
ABOUT IT, THE TRANSITION ZONE
AND THE HUB ZONES WOULD OPEN UP
THOSE WOULD BE APPROPRIATE
PLACES FOR THESE TYPE
OF BUSINESSES.
AND SO AS PART OF THAT THE
THINGS THAT YOU WOULD WANT TO
THINK ABOUT IS DOES THAT CHANGE
THE SEPARATION REQUIREMENT?
>> DOES IT CHANGE YOUR OPINIONS
ON CAPPS?
DOES IT CHANGE THAT YOU WOULD
LIKE TO ESTABLISH SOME NEW
SEPARATION REQUIREMENTS THAT IS
?
YES, I I THINK THAT IS GOING TO
BE AN ISSUE AND THAT IS GOING
TO BE ONE OF MANY THAT WE'RE
GOING TO HAVE TO WRESTLE WITH
AS WE TRY TO COLLAPSE.
THIRTY FOUR ZONING DISTRICTS
INTO FIFTEEN.
>> SO I WAS OFF-MIKE MR.
LEONARD I DID NOT SAY IT ON
MIKE SO IT'S NOT IN THE RECORD
.
>> OK, I MEAN TO BE HONEST MY
TEAM WOULD LOVE ONE ONE REALLY
FROM YOUR LIPS TO THIS
COMMISSION.
HERE'S YES.
I DON'T THINK PLAY DEPUTY
PLANNER KELLY AGREES WITH THAT
.
YES.
ALL RIGHT.
SO WE'RE JUST WE'RE JUST TRYING
TO LIGHTEN UP THE MOOD HERE AT
THE TABLE.
>> OK, YEAH.
>> SO I THINK EVERYTHING THAT
YOU THAT YOU'RE PRESENTING
MAKES SENSE.
I THINK THE SPECIAL EXCEPTION
YOU SHOULD BE MAINTAIN I THINK
IF YOU DO WANT US TO CONSIDER
REMOVING THE CAP, I THINK YOU
SHOULD ALSO STRIKE THREE A IN
THE ORDINANCE IT SAYS NO
APPROVAL UNDER THIS CHAPTER
SHALL BE GRANTED FOR ANY
MARIJUANA FACILITY IN EXCESS
OF LIMITS ON PERMITS FOR
FACILITIES IN THE CITY
ESTABLISHED BY CHAPTER 96
OF THE CITY CODE OR OTHER
ACTIONS OF THE CITY.
SO I THINK THAT THAT IF WE
APPROVE THIS AMENDMENT AS YOU
HAVE PRESENTED IT TO US, I
WOULD RECOMMEND THAT THERE'S A
STRIKE THROUGH HERE UNLESS YOU
FEEL LIKE THAT'S NOT NECESSARY
.
I MEAN I THINK IT'S A GOOD
POINT.
THE ONLY THING I WOULD SAY IS
IF THERE IS NO CAP THAT DOESN'T
HAVE ANY APPLICABILITY AND IF
IN THE FUTURE IT WOULD BY ITS
VERY NATURE TO BE BE STRUCK.
OK, GREAT.
I JUST WANT TO MAKE SURE THAT
WE DIDN'T HAVE I CAN BRING THAT
UP WITH THE ATTORNEY'S OFFICE
AS WELL.
>> OK, GREAT.
ANYONE ELSE
?
>> COMMISSIONER NORTON, I'M
CONTEMPLATING COMMISSIONER,
PLEASE COMMENTS AND WHETHER HE
WAS ASKING FOR AN AMENDMENT
SOME KIND OF POPULATION RATIO
NO CAP.
>> YEAH THAT'S ACTUALLY A THANK
YOU.
>> OH YES.
I'M SORRY COMMISSIONER LEE, CAN
I GET A CLARIFICATION ON THE
PLANNING COMMISSION MOTION THE
TABLE RIGHT NOW THIS WOULD BE
THE SEPARATE THIS WOULD BE TO
REMOVAL OF THE SCHOOL
SEPARATION MINIMUMS AND OTHER
MODIFICATIONS.
>> IT'S GOING TO BE EVERYTHING
THAT'S IN THE ORDINANCE THAT
HAS A STRIKETHROUGH AND A NEW
ORDERINGS.
SO IT'S THE FIVE PAGES THAT
WERE ATTACHED TO OUR PACKET.
SO WE WOULD BE TAKING THE WHOLE
ENTIRE PACKET.
>> OK, GOT IT.
UNDERSTOOD.
SO YEAH I MEAN MY FIRST TWO
POINTS I DON'T THINK ARE NOT
THAT MATERIAL BECAUSE AGAIN
IT'S THE ELIMINATION OF THE
SEPARATION DISTANCE THE TWO
QUESTIONS I SUPPOSE THE OTHER
TWO ARE THE EVALUATION
FRAMEWORK WHICH COULD BE PRETTY
INFORMAL IN NATURE.
>> SO AGAIN FOOD FOR THOUGHT
ABOUT LIKE AS WE MAKE CHANGES
CAN BE PUT IN SOMETHING TO
REVIEW IT WITHIN TWELVE TWENTY
FOUR THIRTY SIX MONTHS AND THE
OTHER ONE BEING PART OF THE
POPULATION.
BUT I ALSO JUST WANT TO GET A
SENSE FROM PEOPLE THE RATIONALE
OF ELIMINATING A CAP VERSUS
TETHERING INTO POPULATION
SOMETHING THAT GIVES IT A
LITTLE BIT MORE I GUESS I DON'T
WANT TO CALL IT LIKE LOGICAL
ANALOG TO OTHER WAYS OF LIKE
REGULATING LIKE SUCH AS LIKE
EXAMPLE BUT THAT IT ALSO
CREATES YEAH.
>> SO I JUST WANTED TO GET
PEOPLE'S TAKES ON THAT KIND
OF A YEAH WE CAN WE CAN WE DO
THIS LIKE JUST TO YOUR QUESTION
TO DECIDE WHETHER YOU WANT TO
DO A MOTION.
YEAH.
>> ABOUT IT SO IF WE CAN STAY
TIGHT TO THAT SO WE'LL START
WITH YOU COMMISSIONER OR WE'LL
WORK DOWN THE TABLE.
>> SORRY GO AHEAD.
I DON'T THINK WE NEED TO HAVE
POPULATION CAP.
IT'S ALREADY CONSTRAINED BY THE
DISTRICTS THAT IT CAN GO INTO
AN RECOGNIZING THAT WE'LL NEED
TO REVISIT THAT IF IF AND WHEN
WE COLLAPSE ZONING CODES.
I DON'T I THINK IF WE HAD A
POPULATION CAP NOW WE'RE GOING
TO HAVE TO STRUGGLE THROUGH
WHAT'S THE ARBITRARY NUMBER
THAT WE PICK TO TIE TO THE
POPULATION AND HOW WOULD WE
DECIDE THAT?
AND I'M PRETTY COMFORTABLE THE
INDUSTRY IS SETTLING ITSELF OUT
AND WE'RE NOT GOING TO BE
INUNDATED WITH OVERWHELMING
NUMBERS OF REQUESTS TO PROVIDE
NEW CENTERS.
AND IF WE ARE, WE ALL HAVE THE
OPPORTUNITY TO COME BACK AND
REVISIT.
>> SO THE SHORT ANSWER IS I
WOULD NOT BE IN FAVOR OF THAT
AMENDMENT.
COMMISSIONER ADAMS, YOU STEPPED
OUT.
>> WE'RE DOING A CHECK ON
WHETHER WE SHOULD DO A TIE TO
POPULATION FOR CONSIDERATION
OF REMOVING THE TWENTY EIGHT
LICENSE.
>> NO, I'M FINE WITH THE
PROPOSAL AS WRITTEN.
>> OK, WE'RE GOING TO GO DOWN
THE TABLE BACK TO YOU.
COMMISSIONER HAMMERSCHMIDT.
ALSO FINE WITH THE PROPOSAL AS
WRITTEN.
ARE WE ALSO COMMENTING ON THE
FIRST PART OF A THIRD?
>> NO, WE'RE JUST DOING THE GAP
OF TWENTY EIGHT COUNCIL MEMBER
DISH ALSO FINE GIVEN THE POINT
THAT IT'S CONSTRAINED BY WHERE
IT CAN BE LOCATED AND WE'RE
GOING TO HAVE TO REVISIT THAT
ANYWAY.
>> YEAH AND COMMISSIONER
WETHERBEE, I JUST WANT TO HEAR
FROM EVERYONE OK GREAT GROUP.
>> ALL RIGHT.
I KNOW YOU'RE NOT GOING TO MAKE
A MOTION SO THAT ANSWERS YOUR
QUESTION.
OK, DO WE NEED TO CAN I COULD
DO IT IN THE MOTION FOR THE
NOTWITHSTANDING THE ABILITY TO
CONSTRAIN BASED ON A SPECIAL
EXCEPTION USE WE'RE NOT SETTING
A FORMAL STANDARD DISTANCE DOES
NOT REQUIRE MOTION TO AMEND.
I WAS DO SOMETHING THAT I HAVE
WORK TO DO WITH THE ATTORNEY'S
OFFICE JUST BECAUSE IT FEELS
LIKE AN ATTORNEY SORT OF THING
AND THEY WOULD SORT OF REVIEW
IT.
>> I'M COMFORTABLE WITH THAT IF
THAT'S OK.
>> YOU'RE MY GREAT COMMISSIONER
.
>> SO WHETHER IT BE YOUR DISH
OK, I THINK WE'RE READY.
OH SORRY COMMISSIONER
HAMMERSCHMIDT, YOU WANT TO ASK
A QUESTION ABOUT SOMETHING
ELSE?
OK, GREAT.
I THINK WE'RE READY TO MANAGER
KELLY ON THE MOTION AS
PRESENTED COMMISSIONER NORTON.
YES.
ADAMS YES.
WHETHER IT BE YES.
>> THIS YES.
LEE YES.
HAMMERSCHMIDT YES.
>> RIGHT.
>> YES.
THAT CARRIES THANK YOU MR.
LENNART.
THIS BRINGS US TO AGENDA ITEM
NUMBER ELEVEN OTHER BUSINESS
MANAGER KELLY, YOU HAVE A
CALENDAR REVIEW FOR US BECAUSE
WE'RE ADDING A REGULAR MEETING
IN PLACE OF A WORK SESSION ON
OCTOBER 16TH AND WE'RE STARTING
THAT MEETING AT FIVE THIRTY.
>> THAT IS THE PROPOSAL TO ADD
AN ADDITIONAL MEETING TO YOUR
AGENDA REGULAR VOTING SESSION
IN LIEU OF A WORKING SESSION.
AS YOU KNOW, WE ARE STRIVING TO
BE ACCOMMODATING TO PETITIONERS
IN THIS CASE THE CITY IS
CONNECTED TO THIS PROPOSAL BY
WAY OF THE ANN ARBOR HOUSING
COMMISSION AT THE THREE FIFTY S
FIFTH SITE THEY HAD MENTIONED
IT WOULD BE VERY DIFFICULT FOR
THEM TO PRESENT AT A MEETING IN
NOVEMBER I IMAGINE RELATED TO
FINANCING AGREEMENTS AND SO
FORTH.
AND SO WE WOULD LIKE TO
NOMINATE THEM IF POSSIBLE AND
THAT'S WHAT'S ON YOUR THE
PURPOSE FOR YOUR CALENDAR
CHANGE.
CAN I ASK A CLARIFYING QUESTION
SORRY ABOUT THE FIVE THIRTY
START TIME.
>> YES.
WE PULLED THE THE COMMISSIONERS
AND THERE WERE EQUAL NUMBER I
THINK OF PEOPLE WHO WERE
AVAILABLE AT EARLIER TIME
FRAMES AS AT SEVEN PM AND THERE
I'M SORRY I CAN TOTALLY FORGOT
THAT WHOLE EMAIL THREAD
INCLUDING MY OWN PARTICIPATION
.
>> IT ALL MAKES SENSE.
THANK YOU SO MUCH.
HERE'S THE PROPOSED MOTION THE
CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
APPROVED THE PROPOSED CALENDAR
CHANGES AS PRESENTED IN
TONIGHT'S PACKET MOVE BY
COMMISSIONER DISH SECONDED BY
COMMISSIONER LEE DISCUSSION
SAYING NONE ALL THOSE IN FAVOR
SAY AY AY ANY OPPOSE THE MOTION
CARRIES THIS BRINGS US TO
AGENDA ITEM NUMBER TWELVE
PUBLIC COMMENT.
THIS IS A SECOND OPPORTUNITY
FOR INDIVIDUALS TO SPEAK UP TO
THREE MINUTES ON ANY ISSUE
.
WE'LL HEAR FIRST FROM THOSE
PRESENT THEN REMOTE
PARTICIPANTS TO SPEAK REMOTELY.
CRESTAR NINE IF ON PHONE OR USE
THE ZOOM RAISED HAND FEATURE
FOR PHONE ACCESS DIAL EIGHT
SEVEN SEVEN FIVE EXCUSE ME
EIGHT SEVEN SEVEN EIGHT FIVE
THREE FIVE TO FOUR SEVEN AND
INTER MEETING ID NINE SEVEN
SEVEN SIX SIX THREE FOUR ONE
TWO TWO SIX CITY STAFF WILL
IDENTIFY BY THE LAST THREE
DIGITS OF THEIR PHONE NUMBER OR
BY NAME IF ON ZOOM YOU'LL HEAR
AN ANNOUNCEMENT WHEN IT'S YOUR
TURN TO SPEAK PLEASE ENSURE
YOU'RE IN A QUIET AREA AND MUTE
ANY BACKGROUND NOISE.
IS THERE ANYONE PRESENT IN THE
CHAMBER WHO WISHES TO ADDRESS
THE COMMISSION?
THANK YOU FOR YOUR TIME TODAY
TWO EIGHT SEVEN ZERO OAKDALE
DRIVE THE GEORGES SOMETHING
COOL REPLACING PARKING FOR
HOUSING FOR PRIORITIZING PEOPLE
AND CREATING SPACES FOR REAL
LIFE.
BUT IT'S NOT ABOUT THIS ONE
DEVELOPMENT.
IT'S ABOUT ALL THE
OPPORTUNITIES EACH PART OF THE
CITY DESERVES.
I BELIEVE THE WAVE OF SUPPORT
FOR THE GEORGE TODAY YOU'VE
HEARD IS A PART OF A LARGER
NEED FOR HOUSING AND MIXED USE
SPACES SO I HOPE THAT AS YOU
DISCUSS THE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
NEXT MEETING YOU CONTINUE TO
CREATE OPPORTUNITIES FOR
EVERYONE IN THIS CITY.
I ASK THAT YOU SUPPORT A PLAN
HEIRS TO THE SIDE OF LETTING
ANYONE WHETHER THEY'RE A WELL
FUNDED DEVELOPER OR NOT BE ABLE
TO ADD MORE HOUSING OR MIXED
USES TO THEIR PROPERTY TONIGHT
.
WHAT ABOUT THE GEORGE BUT OUR
FUTURE TOMORROW THE DAY AFTER
TOMORROW AND BEYOND IS ABOUT
ENVISIONING OUR CITY AS A WHOLE
AND WHO GETS A CHANCE TO LIVE.
>> THANK YOU FOR LISTENING.
THANK YOU.
MARK SCARBRO.
TWENTY SEVENTEEN FAIR STREET.
WE'VE HEARD TONIGHT THAT THE
PROJECT THE GEORGE COULDN'T
HAVE HAPPENED WITHOUT THE
ELIMINATION OF PARKING MINIMUMS
.
I'VE ALSO HEARD FROM THE
LOWERTOWN BUSINESS OWNERS THAT
THEY COULDN'T HAVE OPENED AND
CULTIVATED THEIR INCREDIBLE
COMMUNITY SPACE IF IT WASN'T
FOR THAT SAME ELIMINATION.
THAT ORDINANCE THAT RULE CHANGE
IN TWENTY TWENTY TWO.
BUT ANY SHOWPIECES IN THE ROOM
KNOW THAT THE HIGH COST OF FREE
PARKING HAS BEEN STUDIED AND
DOCUMENTED FOR DECADES.
WE ARE NOT LEADING THE NATION
IN DELIVERING ON OUR
PROGRESSIVE VALUES AS A CITY
BECAUSE WE ARE SCARED
OF LOOSENING OUR DEATH GRIP
OF CONTROL AND IT IS A DEATH
GRIP WHILE WE DEBATE ACADEMIC
TERMINOLOGY, PEOPLE ARE FORCED
INTO LOWER ECONOMIC OPPORTUNITY
TOWNSHIPS WITH HIGH
TRANSPORTATION COSTS ARE
LOVELY.
LIBERAL CITY ENABLES ECONOMIC
SEGREGATION.
MUCH OF THE COMPLAN DISCUSSION
HAS BEEN IN CONVERSATION WITH
THE EXISTING UDC WHICH
REPRESENTS A CENTURY OF RACE
AND INCOME EXCLUSION BY DESIGN
IT REPRESENTS AN OTHERING
OF STUDENTS AS SECOND CLASS
CITIZENS.
IT'S A TWO HUNDRED SOMETHING
PAGE LONG DOCUMENT WRITTEN TO
STOP AND BLOCK AND SLOW DOWN
CHANGE IN THE NAME
OF PROTECTING RESIDENTS AS YOU
WORK ON ZONING CHANGES IN THE
NEXT YEAR, I ENCOURAGE YOU TO
RETHINK YOUR CURRENT ROLE AS
SOMEBODY AT SIM CITY PLANNERS
TRYING TO CREATE A PERFECT
FRAMEWORK FOR A PERFECT CITY
INSTEAD PRIORITIZE GETTING OUT
OF THE WAY OF PEOPLE AND
ORGANIZATIONS WHO ARE TRYING TO
SOLVE THE REAL PROBLEMS HUMANS
ARE FACING AN EXAMPLE SO MANY
OF OUR HIGH RISES IN THE
SOUTHEAST AREA ARE EFFECTIVELY
CAPPED AT NINETEEN STORIES.
MOST PEOPLE MYSELF INCLUDED
WOULDN'T NOTICE THE VISUAL
DIFFERENCE BETWEEN A 19 STORY
BUILDING AND A TWENTY FIVE
STORY BUILDING.
BUT THAT LATTER BUILDING COULD
PROVIDE HOMES FOR DOZENS MORE
HUMAN BEINGS NEIGHBORS WHO WANT
TO THRIVE IN OUR COMMUNITY.
WHAT CAN YOU DO TO UNBLOCK A
THRIVING COMMUNITY?
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
>> ANYONE ELSE IN CHAMBER?
HI.
THANK YOU FOR BEING HERE.
MY NAME IS MEG.
I ENJOYED LIVING IN ANN ARBOR
FOR FOUR YEARS.
I AM A NURSE AT MICHIGAN
MEDICINE.
>> IT'S A SECOND CAREER FOR ME
AND I AM REALLY URGING YOU TO
ADD MORE HOUSING AND IN IN ANN
ARBOR I TALKED TO MY COWORKERS
ALL THE TIME PEOPLE FROM TECHS
TO NURSES TO MEDICAL RESIDENTS
WHO ALL SAY IT'S REALLY HARD TO
GET HOUSING HERE AND THE
HOUSING THAT IS AVAILABLE IS
REALLY EXPENSIVE.
I LIVED ONE YEAR HERE IN AN
APARTMENT IN ANN ARBOR AND I
COULD HARDLY AFFORD TO LIVE
THERE ON WHAT I BELIEVE IS A
GOOD SALARY HERE IN ANN ARBOR.
SO FOR THE SUSTAINABILITY
INITIATIVES IN ANN ARBOR PEOPLE
NEED TO BE ABLE TO LIVE WHERE
THEY WORK AND PEOPLE COMPLAIN
ABOUT PARKING AT THE HOSPITAL
ALL THE TIME.
BUT WHAT IF THEY WERE ABLE TO
LIVE HERE AND TAKE THE BUS OR
WALK RIGHT OR BIKE LIKE I DO SO
AND ALSO TO BE ENGAGED IN YOUR
COMMUNITY AND ALSO BE ABLE TO
LIVE HERE, YOU KNOW, THOUSANDS
OF PEOPLE ARE DRIVING HERE TO
WORK BUT THEY'RE NOT INVESTED
IN ANN ARBOR.
SO WHAT IF WE HAD THEM ALL
HERE?
SO I ENCOURAGE MORE HOUSING
HERE AND TO KEEP THAT IN MIND
MOVING FORWARD.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
.
ANYONE ELSE IN CHAMBER MANAGER
KELLY?
DO WE HAVE ANY REMOTE
PARTICIPANTS WE DO NOT GIVEN
THERE ARE NO REMOTE
PARTICIPANTS.
I'M CLOSING THE PUBLIC COMMENT
THAT TAKES US TO AGENDA ITEM
NUMBER THIRTEEN COMMISSION
PROPOSED BUSINESS.
>> IS THERE ANY SEEING NONE.
I WILL ENTERTAIN A MOTION FOR
ADJOURNMENT MOVE BY
COMMISSIONER SECONDED BY
COMMISSIONER DISH ALL THOSE IN
FAVOR SAY I OPPOSED.
>> WE ARE ADJOURNED